Southern Great Barrier Reef affected in bleaching event | Gympie Times Skip to site map Menu premium_icon Subscribe Today's Paper Login Hi My Profile Notifications Admin Site Logout Just In News Sport Lifestyle Community Jobs Motoring Real Estate Obituaries Classifieds 18-31°C Sunny Gympie Gympie Rainbow Beach Tin Can Bay Tiaro Gunalda Woolooga Kilkivan Goomeri Cooroy Pomona Goomboorian News Local News Just In Letters to the Editor Opinion Queensland National World Off Beat Business Sport Local Sport National Sport Horse Racing Features Opinion NRL AFL Soccer Cricket Netball Golf Lifestyle Entertainment Health Smarter Shopping Education Parenting Hey Mumma Home & Style Easy Eating Gardening Outdoor Living Travel Fashion Dating Home + Life Community Community News Your Story Weddings Pets Photos Buy Photos Videos Local History Welcome to Gympie Region 2018 Welcome to Gympie What's on Events Competitions Guides Tourism Post Your Event Jobs Jobs News Training & Education Local Job Listings Post your Job Ad Motoring Motoring News Road Test Future Models Local Motoring Listings Post your Motoring Ad Real Estate Real Estate News Local Real Estate Listings Real Estate Guide Post your Real Estate Ad Sold On - Gympie Gympie Real Estate - You Can Afford Home Builders Guide 2018 Real Estate You Can Afford Obituaries Classifieds Classifieds Real Estate Motoring Jobs Buy & Sell Notices Trades & Services Health & Beauty Personals Businesses for Sale Post an Ad Find Your Local Search by keyword Search by location Search by category Add your business Special Features The Crest Display Village Gympie Brides Magazine APN Network News Southern Great Barrier Reef affected in bleaching event Director of the ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies Professor Terry Hughes conducting a previous coral bleaching aerial survey in 2017. Photo: Ed Roberts News Southern Great Barrier Reef affected in bleaching event brittiny edwards, brittiny.edwards@news-mail.com.au brittiny edwards Full Profile Login to follow 11th Apr 2020 5:00 PM premium_icon Subscriber only 0 PARTS of the Southern Great Barrier Reef (SGBR) have been affected by a mass coral bleaching event. While the damage wasn't as bad as further north, this is the third severe mass coral bleaching event on the Great Barrier Reef in five years and the first time the SGBR has been included. Director of the ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies at James Cook University Professor Terry Hughes said the 2020 bleaching was severe and more widespread than previous events. "We surveyed 1,036 reefs from the air during the last two weeks in March, to measure the extent and severity of coral bleaching throughout the Barrier Reef region," Mr Hughes said. "For the first time, severe bleaching has struck all three regions of the Great Barrier Reef, the northern, central and now large parts of the southern sectors," Prof Hughes said. A map of the 2020 coral bleaching event with the most affected areas highlighted in red. Photo: ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies. This year, February had the highest monthly temperatures ever recorded on the Great Barrier Reef since the Bureau of Meteorology's sea surface temperature records began in 1900. Acting Assistant Director of the ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies at James Cook University Professor Morgan Pratchett led underwater surveys to assess the bleaching and said they would return to assess the damage. "In 2020, the cumulative footprint of bleaching has expanded further to include the south," Mr Pratchett said. Bleached Acropora Coral found during ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies' survey of the Great Barrier Reef. Photo: Morgan Pratchett "Bleaching isn't necessarily fatal, and it affects some species more than others. "A pale or lightly bleached coral typically regains its colour within a few weeks or months and survives. "We will go back underwater later this year to assess the losses of corals from this most recent event." 0 climate change Read More Login to follow coral bleaching Read More Login to follow great barrier reef Read More Login to follow southern great barrier reef Read More Login to follow climate change coral bleaching great barrier reef southern great barrier reef Subscriber Exclusives premium_icon Mum’s visa at risk after coronavirus job loss News ‘I’ve worked here for four years self-employed and not asked for a cent from anybody, I look after myself’ 4 premium_icon Hope for Whitsundays’ reefs after third mass bleaching News After the hottest February on record since 1900, the reefs around the region are luckily not the hardest hit. premium_icon What you CAN still do under COVID-19 restrictions Community 11 activities to keep you occupied in Mackay while still abiding by government rules 5 premium_icon Police crack down on juvenile offenders Crime Up to a dozen children were arrested in Mackay in relation to alleged property crime and car thefts 4 premium_icon Coronavirus sparks idea for innovative new product Business Mackay company’s idea allows customers to shop safely amid the global pandemic. premium_icon Mining boss responds to COVID-19 safety concerns News As the impact of COVID-19 is felt around the world, a mining boss has revealed his thoughts on tough new FIFO travel restrictions. Just In Tuberculosis vaccine trial offers hope in COVID-19 war 11th Apr 2020 5:50 PM Supermarket shoppers furious at ‘packed’ aisles 11th Apr 2020 5:41 PM premium_icon Virus strikes again as Army’s largest exercise cancelled 11th Apr 2020 5:25 PM premium_icon Die-hard campers’ amazing backyard set-up 11th Apr 2020 5:18 PM Pell: ‘Why did this happen to me?’ 11th Apr 2020 5:14 PM MAFS star’s iso makeover stuns fans 11th Apr 2020 5:09 PM Just In Maccas expands ‘essential’ groceries menu ‘Stupid’ neighbour reports COVID-19 nurse premium_icon Heal flying to new heights with roulettes premium_icon ‘Beenham Valley Road’ creator returns with new crime podcast Top Stories premium_icon Mini plateau over as Coast records another COVID-19 case News After signs of a plateau, the Sunshine Coast has recorded another new coronavirus case today taking the region’s total to 87. premium_icon Former councillor delivers gracious exit, farewell message News I for one am not the person to sit behind a screen and complain like some... 2 premium_icon Partner’s throat cut in vicious domestic attack: court Crime Man bashed woman with a spanner, cut her throat with a butter knife 1 premium_icon Gympie woman stops COVID from ruining 100th birthday plan News A letter from the Queen wasn’t the only first for this Gympie centenarian on her... © Gympie Times Pty Ltd 2020. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty. News Corp Australia Group Websites Need Help? Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing. Gympie Times Gympie News National News World News Sport Lifestyle Travel Shopping Business Real Estate Home Loans Gympie Weather Newspapers in Education What's On Entertainment Events Place an event Competitions Gympie Classifieds Jobs in Gympie Cars for Sale in Gympie Property listings in Gympie Bargains for Sale in Gympie Obituaries in Gympie Personals in Gympie Notices in Gympie Property for Rent Houses for Sale Classifieds Garage Sale Recruitment About Gympie Times Audience Panel About Us Contact Us Use our Content Home Delivery ePaper Photo Sales Letters to the Editor Competition Terms News Media Digital Advertising Group Sites Privacy Policy Terms of Use × Login