Blue-throated Hummingbird Hummingbird Pictures / Ruby-throated Hummingbirds (special feature) / Hummingbird Feeders / Hummingbird Food / Links Blue-throated Hummingbird Scientific name: Lampornis clemenciae Length: 5 inches (13 cm) Identification: Metallic-green from above and gray from below, the blue-throated hummingbird has a white stripe behind the eye -- or, some would describe it as a white stripe above and another below the eye. The male only has the blue throat (gorget) -- which may look black in poor light -- and white corners to its blue-black tail feathers. The female has white tips to its outer tail feathers and is similar in appearance to the female magnificent hummingbird, which has gray tips to its tail feathers. Habitat and range: Observed along the border between the United States and Mexico, it nests usually near or over water in a mountain canyon. FYI: The blue-throated hummingbird, like all hummingbirds, must supplement its protein diet of small insects with continual feeding on nectar and pollen. Not only can the hummingbird fly forwards or backwards, it can adjust itself upwards or downwards, shift side to side, pivot on a stationary axis, hover in midair, but it can also turn a somersault in mid-flight and fly upside-down. Source: Alexander F. Skutch, The Life of the Hummingbird (New York: Vineyard Books, Inc., 1973), pp. 26-27. The scent or perfume of the flower has been demonstrated by experiments with hummingbirds to have little to do with their detection of food. Source: "Hummingbird," The Audubon Nature Encyclopedia, 1965, Vol. 5, p. 895. Outside links: Birds in Flight (photograph) Ten Most Common Hummingbird Species found in Texas (photographs) Male and Female Blue-throated Hummingbirds (photographs) Pictures: click picture(s) for larger version, photo credits, and description. Select a hummingbird by its name: (in alphabetical order) Allen's Hummingbird Anna's Hummingbird Black-chinned Hummingbird   Blue-throated Hummingbird   Booted Racket-tail Hummingbird   Broad-billed Hummingbird   Broad-tailed Hummingbird   Calliope Hummingbird   Costa's Hummingbird   Crimson Topaz Hummingbird   Long-tailed Hermit Hummingbird   Magnificent (Rivoli's) Hummingbird   Peruvian Sheartail Hummingbird   Plain-capped Starthroat Hummingbird   Red-billed Streamertail Hummingbird   Ruby-throated Hummingbird   Rufous Hummingbird   Sword-billed Hummingbird   Violet-crowned Hummingbird   White-eared Hummingbird   Xantus' Hummingbird Select a hummingbird's nest by its name: (in alphabetical order) Allen's Hummingbird (nest) & another Anna's Hummingbird (nest) & another Bearded Helmetcrest Hummingbird (nest)   Black-chinned Hummingbird (nest) & another & with mother   Broad-billed Hummingbird (eggs only)   Buff-bellied Hummingbird (nest)   Calliope Hummingbird (nest)   Costa's Hummingbird (nest) & another & with mother   Fork-tailed Emerald Hummingbird (nest)   Giant Hummingbird (nest)   Glittering-bellied Emerald Hummingbird (nest)   Golden-bellied Starfrontlet Hummingbird (nest)   Purple-throated Sunangel Hummingbird (nest)   Ruby-throated Hummingbird (nest)   Rufous Hummingbird (nest) & with parents   Sappho Comet Hummingbird (nest)   Xantus' Hummingbird (nest)   All photos and content at this website are Copyright © 2005 by Hummingbird Pictures Guide, and may NOT be used for other purposes. Member of Fohn.net