Some people turn to herbal medicine for virus without proof - New Canaan Advertiser Subscribe Home Contact Us Help Advertise With Us FAQ's Privacy Notice Terms of Use Coronavirus claims 17th, 18th New Canaan residents Coronavirus being carried into New Canaan homes; More die New Canaan retailers promoting their wares online soon New Canaan Advertiser holding online coffee News Police & Fire Business Town Government Politics & Elections People Submissions Coronavirus claims 17th, 18th New Canaan residents Coronavirus being carried into New Canaan homes; More die New Canaan retailers promoting their wares online soon New Canaan Advertiser holding online coffee Sports High School Sports Youth Sports Submissions New Canaan competes at squash national championships New Canaan and Darien girls ice hockey teams found some joy in New Canaan girls ski team stars at State Open Rams by the numbers: Careers end for college lax stars, pros on Schools Obituaries Obituaries Opinion Letters Editorial Columns Columns Main Elm Walsh's Wonderings Editorial Cartoons Submissions Earth Day coming up Wednesday New Canaan National Healthcare Decisions Day Thursday New Canaan New Canaan: Reigniting economy: Flip switch or take steps? Behind the glass in New Canaan about birds Around Town Community Town Meetings TV79 Schedule Lapham Community Center Religious Services Celebrate Summer Arts Features Arts Listings Arts & Leisure Columns Arts & Leisure Columns Test Drive Curtain Call Movie Menu The Conscious Cook Did I say that? Kneads & Cravings Reel Dad Taking a Hike Bill of Fairs Kids Stuff Lively Arts On Exhibit On Stage Something New Sound of Music Weekend Q&AS Home and Garden Binge & Repeat Today’s butler’s pantry: The “kitchen” behind the kitchen Let the spirit move you: How to design a positive space in your Spring forward! Food for thought: Fairfield County stores offer trendy health Real Estate Classifieds Subscribe MenuSections https://www.ncadvertiser.com/news/article/Some-people-turn-to-herbal-medicine-for-virus-15206763.php Some people turn to herbal medicine for virus without proof Aniruddha Ghosal and Yanan Wang, Associated Press Updated 10:43 pm EDT, Thursday, April 16, 2020 In this March 13, 2020 photo, a worker fills orders for prescriptions in front of a cabinet of drawers containing ingredients for traditional Chinese medicine preparations at the Bo Ai Tang traditional Chinese medicine clinic in Beijing. With no approved drugs for the new coronavirus, some people are turning to alternative medicines, often with governments promoting them. less In this March 13, 2020 photo, a worker fills orders for prescriptions in front of a cabinet of drawers containing ingredients for traditional Chinese medicine preparations at the Bo Ai Tang traditional Chinese ... more Photo: Mark Schiefelbein, AP Photo: Mark Schiefelbein, AP Image 1 of / 18 Caption Close Image 1 of 18 In this March 13, 2020 photo, a worker fills orders for prescriptions in front of a cabinet of drawers containing ingredients for traditional Chinese medicine preparations at the Bo Ai Tang traditional Chinese medicine clinic in Beijing. With no approved drugs for the new coronavirus, some people are turning to alternative medicines, often with governments promoting them. less In this March 13, 2020 photo, a worker fills orders for prescriptions in front of a cabinet of drawers containing ingredients for traditional Chinese medicine preparations at the Bo Ai Tang traditional Chinese ... more Photo: Mark Schiefelbein, AP Some people turn to herbal medicine for virus without proof 1  /  18 Back to Gallery NEW DELHI (AP) — With no approved drugs for the new coronavirus, some people are turning to alternative medicines, often with governments promoting them. This is most evident in India and China, densely populated countries with a deep history and tradition of touting such treatments, and where there's sometimes limited access to conventional medicine. In India, where a lockdown of its 1.3 billion residents is underway, the government faced criticism after claiming some treatments might help prevent infections. In China, where the pandemic began, officials made unsubstantiated claims that traditional medicine was key to fighting the virus. In Venezuela, where the health care system is severely crimped, President Nicolas Maduro pitched drinking an herbal tea. The World Health Organization had advised against taking “traditional herbal remedies” on its website. It later acknowledged that some were turning to alternative medicine “to alleviate some of the milder symptoms of COVID-19,” WHO spokesperson Tarik Jasarevic said. Dr. Mike Ryan, WHO's emergencies chief, welcomed rigorous studies of alternative treatments “like we would of any drug.” He said numerous studies are underway in China, many testing traditional therapies. “It’s up to the people who make the claim to provide the evidence," said Dr. Stephen Barrett, a retired psychiatrist who runs Quackwatch, a website about unproven medical therapies. On Thursday, the U.S. National Institutes of Health warned against alternative medicine — including certain herbal therapies and teas — for treating or preventing COVID-19, saying there was no evidence they work and some may be unsafe. Here's a closer look at the claims: INDIA India is steeped in Ayurveda, a Hindu system of medicine that revolves around herbal medicines and dietary restrictions. As the outbreak spread outside China earlier this year, India's health arm that promotes alternative medicine pushed unproven remedies to “strengthen the immune system," according to an online post by the Ministry of AYUSH. Criticism prompted the government to clarify that these remedies were not a cure. Earlier this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended India’s lockdown and asked citizens to “follow the instructions issued by AYUSH ministry to enhance immunity.” The government also recommended a single dose of a homeopathic drug, according to Anu Kapoor, who heads a government-run homeopathic hospital in New Delhi. But that hasn't been shown to work, said Dr. Anant Bhan, a public health specialist. “The same standards should apply. Especially for times like this,” he said. The Indian government’s push for alternative treatments for COVID-19, combined with bizarre claims by the elected representatives of the ruling Bhartiya Janta Party that cow urine or dung could offer cures, has also resulted in misinformation. Last month, Modi spoke to alternative medical professionals on the need to counter unsubstantiated claims that they could cure COVID-19. The AYUSH ministry later issued orders to all states “to stop and prevent publicity and advertisement” of promised cures. CHINA The Chinese government has claimed that combining herbal medicine with conventional medicine has helped the country deal with the outbreak. Last month, China’s National Health Commission issued a document on treating COVID-19 patients that included several herbal medicines claiming to relieve symptoms like weakness and fever. For infected patients, it prescribed, among other remedies, a “soup for clearing and detoxifying the lungs” and recommended a case-by-case evaluation. Chinese officials and state-run media have touted treating patients with alternative medicine on health care workers exposed to the virus. But some published reports in major medical journals of large numbers of patients treated in China make no mention of alternative medicine. Instead, they note that treatment revolved around established methods such as respiratory support, drugs to help prevent additional infections such as bacterial pneumonia, and other widely accepted therapies. Zhong Nanshan, an epidemiologist who advised the government, said earlier this year that it's testing Chinese herbal medicines. Some of these practices have existed for centuries. But with little or no scientific evidence that they work against COVID-19, attempts have been made to frame it as a cultural issue and not a scientific one. Promoting treatments “without an adequate scientific basis” was worrying, said Dr. Daniel Kuritzkes of Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. Some of these preparations can be toxic, harm the liver or interfere with other drugs, and “you need to do the hard work” to prove them safe, he said. ___ Wang reported from Beijing. AP Chief Medical Writer Marilynn Marchione in Milwaukee and AP Correspondent Jamey Keaten in Geneva contributed to this report. ___ The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content. Most Popular 1 Coronavirus being carried into New Canaan homes; More die 2 New Canaan retailers promoting their wares online soon 3 New Canaan Glass House faces fundraising challenges 4 Bids for New Canaan’s Waveny project could sway outcome 5 Health care group: CT nursing homes on verge of catastrophe 6 Coronavirus claims 17th, 18th New Canaan residents 7 Bridgeport coronavirus cases top 1,000 View Comments © 2020 Hearst Communications, Inc. Logo Return to Top About Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Careers Advertising Archives Contact Contact Us FAQ Today's eEdition Subscriber Services Paid Legal Notices Classifieds Submissions Read More Darien Times Milford Mirror New Canaan Advertiser Shelton Herald Trumbull Times The Ridgefield Press Wilton Bulletin Connect Facebook Twitter Hearst Newspapers © Copyright Hearst Media Services Connecticut, LLC