WHO 'mythbusters' against COVID-19 misinformation | FOX 10 Phoenix News Coronavirus Weather Seen on TV Links Contests Live More Expand / Collapse search Watch Live ☰ Search site News Arizona Headlines Coronavirus LIVE: Interactive Coronavirus case data & map Immigration Crime & Public Safety Health Consumer National News World News Silent Witness Weather Forecast Video Weather Planners Weather Alerts Monsoon Weather App Weather Team Hurricanes Wildfires Traffic Freeway Travel Times Traffic Cameras Flight Delays Weekend Closures FOX 10 Originals News Now Made in Arizona Drone Zone Newsmaker Saturday Life Hacks Olmost the Weekend Mug Shots Arizona Morning Cool House Cory's Corner Community Cares Food & Recipes Poll of the Day Taste of the Town Thrifty Thursday TyPad Video Watch Live News Now News Now #2 Live: Coronavirus Updates Politics Arizona Politics 2020 Election National Politics Newsmaker Saturday Special Reports Only on FOX Searching for JJ & Tylee Coronavirus 2020 Census Homeless Crisis Real ID Vaping Opioid Epidemic Entertainment TV Listings FOX 10 Xtra Events InstaStories Offbeat, Unusual Pets & Animals Viral Play "America Says" online Sports Cardinals Diamondbacks Suns Coyotes Mercury Soccer About Us Advertise News Team Mobile Apps Copies of Newscasts Work for Us Closed Captioning FCC Public File Contact Us Seen on TV Links WHO 'mythbusters' against COVID-19 misinformation By FOX 5 NY Staff Published 19 hours ago Coronavirus FOX 5 NY Facebook Twitter Print Email COVID-19 Mythbusters Misinformation about COVID-19 has spread far and fast online. To fight these myths and lies, the WHO created a series of NEW YORK - The outbreak of a new coronavirus in late 2019 has sickened tens of thousands of people worldwide. The illness, called COVID-19, is a global pandemic. The World Health Organization has urged governments, businesses and individuals to take steps to deal with the spread of the virus. "This is a new virus and a new situation. We're all learning, and we must all find new ways to prevent infections, save lives, and minimize impact," Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the WHO director-general, said on Friday. "All countries have lessons to share." >>DEVELOPMENTS AND RESOURCES AT CORONAVIRUSNOW Misinformation about COVID-19 has spread far and fast online. To fight these myths and lies, the WHO created a series "mythbusters" based on the latest clinical and research information about the novel coronavirus. Here are those mythbusters, as compiled by WHO: Can eating garlic help prevent infection with the new coronavirus? Advertisement Garlic is a healthy food that may have some antimicrobial properties. However, there is no evidence from the current outbreak that eating garlic has protected people from the new coronavirus. Does the new coronavirus affect older people, or are younger people also susceptible?  People of all ages can be infected by the new coronavirus. Older people, and people with pre-existing medical conditions (such as asthma, diabetes, heart disease) appear to be more vulnerable to becoming severely ill with the virus. Are antibiotics effective in preventing and treating the new coronavirus? No, antibiotics do not work against viruses, only bacteria. Can regularly rinsing your nose with saline help prevent infection with the new coronavirus? No. There is no evidence that regularly rinsing the nose with saline has protected people from infection with the new coronavirus. Do vaccines against pneumonia protect you against the new coronavirus? No. Vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and Haemophilus influenza type B (Hib) vaccine, do not provide protection against the new coronavirus. The virus is so new and different that it needs its own vaccine. Researchers are trying to develop a vaccine against 2019-nCoV, and WHO is supporting their efforts. How effective are thermal scanners in detecting people infected with the new coronavirus? Thermal scanners are effective in detecting people who have developed a fever because of infection with the new coronavirus. However, they cannot detect people who are infected but are not yet sick with fever. Can spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body kill the new coronavirus? No. Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes (i.e. eyes, mouth). Are hand dryers effective in killing the new coronavirus? No. Hand dryers are not effective in killing the new coronavirus. To protect yourself against the new coronavirus, you should frequently clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. Once your hands are cleaned, you should dry them thoroughly by using paper towels or a warm air dryer. Can the new coronavirus be transmitted through mosquito bites? To date there has been no information nor evidence to suggest that the new coronavirus could be transmitted by mosquitoes. The new coronavirus is a respiratory virus which spreads primarily through droplets generated when an infected person coughs or sneezes, or through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose. Can an ultraviolet disinfection lamp kill the new coronavirus? UV lamps should not be used to sterilize hands or other areas of skin as UV radiation can cause skin irritation. Can taking a hot bath prevent the new coronavirus disease? No, taking a hot bath will not prevent you from catching COVID-19. Your normal body temperature remains around 36.5°C to 37°C, regardless of the temperature of your bath or shower. Actually, taking a hot bath with extremely hot water can be harmful, as it can burn you. Can the COVID-19 virus be transmitted in areas with hot and humid climates? From the evidence so far, the COVID-19 virus can be transmitted in ALL AREAS, including areas with hot and humid weather. Regardless of climate, adopt protective measures if you live in, or travel to an area reporting COVID-19. Will cold weather and snow kill the new coronavirus? There is no reason to believe that cold weather can kill the new coronavirus or other diseases. The normal human body temperature remains around 36.5°C to 37°C, regardless of the external temperature or weather. Are there any specific medicines to prevent or treat the new coronavirus? To date, there is no specific medicine recommended to prevent or treat the new coronavirus. However, those infected with the virus should receive appropriate care to relieve and treat symptoms, and those with severe illness should receive optimized supportive care. >>DEVELOPMENTS AND RESOURCES AT CORONAVIRUSNOW Coronavirus: What you need to know Just In... View More 66 confirmed cases of coronavirus in Georgia, governor declares public health emergency Panic buying during coronavirus outbreak means long lines, crowded spaces, no toilet paper Pennsylvania COVID-19 coronavirus cases rise to 47, Philadelphia reports 4 cases Mark Cuban will reimburse his employees who shop local for their lunch, coffee New Jersey COVID-19 cases rise to 69, including 1 death Trending Seattle woman infected with coronavirus says 'don’t panic' when recounting battle with deadly illness 2nd presumptive positive COVID-19 coronavirus case reported in Pima County Valley event cancellations, closures mount amidst coronavirus pandemic Coronavirus in Arizona: Public schools list FAQs on potential closures Arizona now seeing ‘community spread’ of coronavirus Tweets by fox10phoenix News Arizona Headlines Coronavirus LIVE: Interactive Coronavirus case data & map Immigration Crime & Public Safety Health Consumer National News World News Silent Witness Weather Forecast Video Weather Planners Weather Alerts Monsoon Weather App Weather Team Hurricanes Wildfires Traffic Freeway Travel Times Traffic Cameras Flight Delays Weekend Closures FOX 10 Originals News Now Made in Arizona Drone Zone Newsmaker Saturday Life Hacks Olmost the Weekend Mug Shots Arizona Morning Cool House Cory's Corner Community Cares Food & Recipes Poll of the Day Taste of the Town Thrifty Thursday TyPad Video Watch Live News Now News Now #2 Live: Coronavirus Updates Politics Arizona Politics 2020 Election National Politics Newsmaker Saturday Special Reports Only on FOX Searching for JJ & Tylee Coronavirus 2020 Census Homeless Crisis Real ID Vaping Opioid Epidemic Entertainment TV Listings FOX 10 Xtra Events InstaStories Offbeat, Unusual Pets & Animals Viral Play "America Says" online Sports Cardinals Diamondbacks Suns Coyotes Mercury Soccer About Us Advertise News Team Mobile Apps Copies of Newscasts Work for Us Closed Captioning FCC Public File Contact Us Seen on TV Links facebook instagram twitter youtube email Updated Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell my Personal Information FCC Public File EEO Public File Closed Captioning Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2020 FOX Television Stations