BRFSS 2001 - Onslow County: (Why do you take aspirin...<br> To reduce the chance of a heart attack?*) BRFSS Survey Results 2001 for Onslow County Cardiovascular Disease+ Why do you take aspirin... To reduce the chance of a heart attack?* Back to Cardiovascular Disease. Select a different topic for Onslow County: Health Status Health Care Access Exercise Hypertension Awareness Cholesterol Awareness Asthma Arthritis Immunization Tobacco Use Alcohol Consumption Firearms Physical Activity Prostate Cancer Screening Colorectal Cancer Screening HIV/AIDS Diabetes Oral Health Heart Attack or Stroke Cardiovascular Disease Fruits and Vegetables Folic Acid Tobacco Indicators Other Tobacco Products Other Tobacco Counseling Substance Abuse Health Care Coverage and Utilization Cancer Prevalence Skin Cancer Hypertension Screening Osteoporosis Prevention Alternative Medicine Disability Quality of Life Family Planning Sexual Behavior Sexual Assault/Physical Violence Risk Factors View results for a different geographical area: Nationwide North Carolina Statewide Buncombe Cumberland Durham Forsyth Gaston Guilford Mecklenburg New Hanover Onslow Wake Eastern North Carolina Piedmont North Carolina Western North Carolina   Total Respond.# Yes No N % C.I.(95%) N % C.I.(95%) North Carolina 635 543 87.5 83.7-90.6 92 12.5 9.4-16.3 + Approximately half of the respondents received questions from this topic See Technical Notes for more information. Due to the small number of respondents to this question, no further breakdowns are available for Onslow County. Please refer to the North Carolina table for statewide breakdowns. Back to Cardiovascular Disease. * This question was asked only of respondents who reported taking aspirin regularly. #Use caution in interpreting cell sizes less than 50. N = Cell Size, % = Percentage, C.I.(95%) = Confidence Interval (at 95 percent probability level). Percentages are weighted to population characteristics. ** Eastern North Carolina: Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lenoir, Martin, Nash, Northampton, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Pitt, Robeson, Sampson, Scotland, Tyrrell, Washington, Wayne, Wilson Piedmont North Carolina: Alamance, Alexander, Anson, Cabarrus, Caswell, Catawba, Chatham, Cleveland, Davidson, Davie, Franklin, Granville, Iredell, Lee, Lincoln, Montgomery, Moore, Orange, Person, Randolph, Richmond, Rockingham, Rowan, Stanly, Stokes, Union, Vance, Warren, Yadkin Western North Carolina: Alleghany, Ashe, Avery, Burke, Caldwell, Cherokee, Clay, Graham, Haywood, Henderson, Jackson, McDowell, Macon, Madison, Mitchell, Polk, Rutherford, Surry, Swain, Transylvania, Watauga, Wilkes, Yancey BRFSS Home | Annual Questionnaires | Technical Notes This page was generated on 13SEP02. SCHS Home | Search | FAQs | Guestbook