Washington-area obituaries of note
Obituaries
Obituaries of residents from the District, Maryland and Northern Virginia.
Leonard ‘Curly’ Greenebaum, lawyer
Leonard “Curly” Greenebaum, 80, a white-collar criminal defense lawyer in Washington whose clients included former State Department consultant Robert W. Owen during the Iran-contra congressional hearings in the late 1980s, died Sept. 11 at his home in Charleston, S.C. The cause was complications from carcinoid syndrome, a form of cancer, said a daughter, Cathy Borten.
Mr. Greenebaum was born in Germany, moved to the United States in 1939 and settled in the Washington in 1957. He became a managing partner at what became Sachs, Greenebaum & Tayler. During Iran-contra, he represented Owen, one of Marine Corps Lt. Col. Oliver L. North’s key operatives; Owen was ultimately granted immunity from prosecution. Mr. Greenebaum later joined Baker & Hostetler, from which he retired in 2000. He was board chairman of the old Davis Goodwill Industries in Washington and sat on the board of the Council for Court Excellence, a nonprofit group that aims to improve Washington’s judicial system. In 2001, he moved to Charleston from Bethesda.
Naomi Tronzo, singer, voice teacher
Naomi Tronzo, 84, a singer and voice teacher who had performed with the National Symphony and at churches in Washington and Arlington County, died Sept. 7 at an assisted-living center in North Stafford, Va. The cause was Alzheimer’s disease, said her husband, Michael Tronzo.
Mrs. Tronzo, a resident of Stafford, Va., was born Naomi Blake in St. Louis and sang with symphony orchestras in the Midwest before coming to the Washington area in 1961. In Washington, she sang at St. John’s Episcopal Church and St. Stephen Martyr Catholic Church. In Arlington, where she lived for 30 years, she sang at Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic Church.
Walter R. Scheltema, personnel classification specialist
Walter R. Scheltema, 83, who worked for 38 years in human resources at the State and Commerce departments before retiring in 1991, died Sept. 18 at a nursing home in Mitchellville, Md. The cause was complications from Type 2 diabetes, said a niece, Christina Scheltema.
Mr. Scheltema, a Washington native, contracted polio at age 26 and was named District of Columbia Polio Father of the Year in 1958 for “tremendous moral courage in combating almost insurmountable obstacles.” He sat on the board of what is now the National Philharmonic and was a member of the Classification and Compensation Society and the Episcopal Christ Church in Kensington. In 2006, he moved to Mitchellville from Kensington.
Deighton Alleyne III, teacher
Deighton Alleyne III, 57, a teacher at Washington Episcopal School in Bethesda for the past 17 years, died Sept. 9 at a hospital in Washington. The cause was complications after a stroke, said his mother, Dolores Alleyne.
Mr. Alleyne, who lived in Washington, was born in Philadelphia. He came to Washington 20 years ago as dining-service manager at Catholic University but then became a teacher. At Washington Episcopal School, he taught grades four and six and coached boys soccer, basketball and lacrosse.
Samuel J. Cornelius, federal executive
Samuel J. Cornelius, 86, an executive at several federal agencies and for almost 20 years the board chairman of the United Black Fund in Washington, died Aug. 22 at a hospice in Arlington County. He had diabetes, heart disease and cancer, said a daughter, Jean C. Barnett, but the immediate cause of his death is pending further tests.
Dr. Cornelius, who lived in Washington, was born in Kansas City, Mo. In Washington, beginning in 1973, he was deputy director of the office of Minority Business Enterprise, the U.S. Community Services Administration, an assistant in the White House personnel office, administrator of Food and Nutrition Services at the Department of Agriculture and, from 1994 until 2014, chairman of the United Black Fund.
Novella D. Samperton, volunteer
Novella D. Samperton, 88, a volunteer and lifelong Washington resident who in 1973 was named one of the 10 best-dressed women in the District by Washingtonian magazine, died Sept. 16 at a care facility in Washington. The cause was cerebral atherosclerosis, said a daughter, Schuyler Samperton.
Mrs. Samperton was born Novella DeLozier in Washington and had done volunteer work at Washington National Cathedral, St. Albans School and the Washington Home hospice. In her style of dress, she favored clothes and hats of the designer Halston.
Frank W. Erwin, chief of industrial psychology firm
Frank W. Erwin, 82, the former president and chairman in Washington of Richardson, Bellows, Henry and Co., industrial psychologists, died Sept. 21 at his home in Arlington. The cause was lung cancer, said a daughter, Kristen Rutherford.
Mr. Erwin was born in Elizabeth, N.J. He joined Richardson, Bellows in 1968 after having worked in Washington in the earlier part of the 1960s for the Peace Corps and as executive assistant to the secretary of labor. In 1999, Richardson, Bellows was acquired by ePredix, which in turn was acquired by PreVisor in 2005. Mr. Erwin served as an adviser to both successor companies.
Carol Raulston, mining association executive
Carol Raulston, 66, the retired vice president for communications of the National Mining Association in Washington, died Sept. 16 at a hospital in Easton, Md. The cause was cancer, said a friend, Virnell Bruce.
Ms. Raulston was born in Wheaton, Mo. She spend most of her working life in the Washington area, including 10 years as manager of state and federal governmental affairs programs in the paper industry for the American Paper Institute in Washington. On retiring in 2013, after 10 years at the National Mining Association, she moved to St. Michaels, Md., from Alexandria.
George F. Crichton Jr., electrical engineer
George F. Crichton Jr., 87, an electrical engineer who worked for 47 years in the Washington area, died Sept. 26 at his home in Lancaster, Va. The cause was kidney failure, said a brother-in-law, Joe Day.
Mr. Crichton was born in Woodbury, N.J. He worked as an electrical engineer for many firms, including VvKR architects and engineers in Alexandria and the Office of Lee Kendrick consulting engineers in Fairfax County. In 1994, he retired and moved to Lancaster from Great Falls, Va.
Evelyn S. Myers, managing editor
Evelyn S. Myers, 92, journalist and managing editor of the American Journal of Psychiatry in Washington from 1965 to 1987, died Sept. 22 at nursing center in Rockville, Md. She had dementia, said a daughter, Cynthia Myers.
Mrs. Myers was born Evelyn Stephenson in New York City, and grew up in Rutherford, N.J. From 1958 to 1960, she lived in what is now Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, where she worked as an editorial adviser to a Vietnam news agency. She continued to work at the American Journal of Psychiatry on a part-time basis until 1991. She advocated the improvement of insurance coverage of mental health services, co-authoring two books on the subject, and received one of the Girl Scouts’ highest honors, the Golden Eaglet Award.
David A. Goldstein, Navy commander
David A. Goldstein, 90, a retired Navy commander who became a government and nonprofit financial officer, died Sept. 8 at his home in Sterling, Va. The cause was congestive heart failure, said a son, Warren Goldstein.
Cmdr. Goldstein was born in Baltimore. He served in the Navy during World War II and then again from 1950 to 1969 as an aviator and a certified public accountant. On his military retirement, he settled permanently in the Washington area, serving as financial control officer for the Securities Investor Protection Corp., and from 1975 to 1985 as comptroller of the Epilepsy Foundation.
— From staff reports
