Before he was The Rock, Dwayne Johnson once tried to rip out a man’s tongue
Early Lead
Dwayne Johnson, admitted tongue-grabber. (Mario Anzuoni/Reuters)
The Dwayne Johnson of today appears to bear little resemblance to the man he was while playing football at the University of Miami in the early ’90s. It’s hard to imagine the 44-year-old who has played goofballs alongside the likes of Kevin Hart and currently stars in the animated Disney flick “Moana” ever getting angry — like really angry, the kind of angry that apparently leads you to attempt to rip a man’s tongue out of his mouth with your bare hands. Yet that’s apparently something that actually happened while Johnson was in college.
“I was always running hot because I wasn’t getting the playing time that I thought I deserved,” Johnson told Sports Illustrated’s Alan Shipnuck in a profile published on Wednesday.
Upset about injuries that put him behind Warren Sapp on the team, Johnson said he “lost it” when his teammate and fellow defensive lineman Kevin Patrick teased him about it one day.
“Me and Kevin were in a coach’s office, and he was talking [crap], as always, but this time I just lost it. It was like a movie fight — the desk got turned over, stuff was flying all over the place. We spilled out onto the weight room floor, still going at it,” Johnson continued. “He wouldn’t stop talking, so I decided to pull his tongue out. I stuffed my big ol’ hand into his mouth, and I had a couple of fingers around his tongue, but it was so damn slippery! I was quite serious about pulling it out, but I couldn’t quite get a hold of it. Eventually I gave up . . .”
Amazingly maybe, Johnson said there were no hard feelings between him and Patrick after the scuffle.
“The fight ended, and two minutes later we were hugging each other,” he said. “It was so dumb.”
The Post has reached out to Patrick for comment.
The fight may have been “dumb,” but it was certainly important in helping to determine the direction of Johnson’s life. It was those moments of coming to terms with his fledgling football career that made Johnson the likable Hollywood star he is today.
“I’d always had a very specific vision of my future. I was going to be Michael Strahan: I would win a Super Bowl with the Giants. I’d have the beautiful wife, the big house . . .” Johnson said.
Instead, he ended up going undrafted by the NFL and signing briefly with the CFL’s Calgary Stampeders in 1995. But Johnson failed to flourish.
“I think about it all the time: What if I had been a little better at football?” Johnson said. “Maybe I would’ve had that success and become complacent. But I didn’t get to walk away [from football] on my terms, and that lit a fire that still burns. I wanted that life I had envisioned, but I had to find another way.”
Obviously, Johnson found another way, first as “the Rock” in the WWE, where he remains a popular figure today, and later in Hollywood, where he’s now the highest paid actor, according to Forbes, which estimated his 2016 earnings to be $64 million.
The spotlight will likely remain bright on Johnson, who has multiple films in the works, including the sequel to “San Andreas” and another “Fast and Furious” movie. Johnson’s also set to play roles in “Jumanji,” “Baywatch” and “Shazam!” which is based on a DC Comic series.
Without the lessons Johnson said his struggles with football taught him, he’s not sure where his life would have wound up.
“I was in the wrong game,” he told Sports Illustrated. “And now I’m in the right one.”
