Dwayne Johnson may have exaggerated when he said he once tried to rip out a man’s tongue
Early Lead
Dwayne Johnson, admitted tongue-grabber. (Mario Anzuoni/Reuters)
The Miami football team’s locker room was a competitive place in the early 1990s. That’s how Dwyane Johnson, star of the new Disney flick “Moana,” and his ex-teammate Kevin Patrick remember it anyway. One day, things got extra heated, and a verbal back-and-forth between the two led to a physical altercation that resulted in furniture being flipped, a weight room being destroyed and — maybe — a tongue nearly being ripped out of a man’s mouth.
“Me and Kevin were in a coach’s office, and he was talking [crap], as always, but this time I just lost it,” Johnson told Sports Illustrated’s Alan Shipnuck in a profile published on Wednesday.
Johnson recalled being upset that an injury had led him to play backup to Warren Sapp, and Johnson said he “lost it” when Patrick, also a defensive lineman, teased him about it.
“It was like a movie fight — the desk got turned over, stuff was flying all over the place. We spilled out onto the weight room floor, still going at it. He wouldn’t stop talking, so I decided to pull his tongue out,” Johnson said. “I stuffed my big ol’ hand into his mouth, and I had a couple of fingers around his tongue, but it was so damn slippery! I was quite serious about pulling it out, but I couldn’t quite get a hold of it.”
Or maybe that didn’t happen.
While Patrick, who currently works as the defensive line coach at Texas Tech, confirmed that the violent brawl happened largely in the way Johnson described, he denied Johnson attempted to pull his tongue out.
“I would’ve bitten his fingers off,” Patrick said on Friday.
Either way, Patrick, who refers to Johnson affectionately as Dewey, said the fight in question broke out in ex-Hurricanes Coach Ed Orgeron’s office and was witnessed by several other members of the team.
“It was a mess,” Patrick recalled. “We ruined [the coach’s] desk. We flipped that desk.”
While the fight was “violent” and some of the details are disputed, Patrick said it wasn’t enough to break the pair’s friendship then and it certainly won’t break it today.
“He’s my brother and will always be my brother,” Patrick said.
Johnson, too, told Sports Illustrated there were no hard feelings after the brawl.
“Two minutes later we were hugging each other,” Johnson said. “It was so dumb.”
The fight may have been “dumb,” but it proved important in helping to determine the direction of Johnson’s life. Johnson said it was those moments of coming to terms with his fledgling football career that made him the likable Hollywood star he is today.
“I’d always had a very specific vision of my future. I was going to be Michael Strahan: I would win a Super Bowl with the Giants. I’d have the beautiful wife, the big house . . .” Johnson said.
Instead, he ended up going undrafted by the NFL and signing briefly with the CFL’s Calgary Stampeders in 1995. But Johnson failed to flourish.
“I think about it all the time: What if I had been a little better at football?” Johnson said. “Maybe I would’ve had that success and become complacent. But I didn’t get to walk away [from football] on my terms, and that lit a fire that still burns. I wanted that life I had envisioned, but I had to find another way.”
Patrick said he’s “not surprised” football had such a formative effect on his friend, who attained his goals post-football first in the WWE as “the Rock” and later as Hollywood’s highest-paid actor.
Even if he no longer plays it, football is “in his DNA,” Patrick said. “It is what is is. It’s who we are. We are ballers. We are football players.”
Johnson’s love of football and acting came together for the HBO show “Ballers,” which Johnson not only stars in but is also producing. Johnson plays a retired NFL player trying to figure out his life’s path after football.
So far, Johnson’s path is brighter than that of his “Ballers” character, Spencer Strasmore. Johnson has multiple films in the works, including the sequel to “San Andreas” and another “Fast and Furious” movie. Johnson’s also set to play roles in “Jumanji,” “Baywatch” and “Shazam!” which is based on a DC Comic series.
Johnson’s success was inevitable, according to Patrick, who said the same passion Johnson showed for football as a Hurricane (and in that now infamous fight) is what led him to become one of Hollywood’s leading men.
“That fire that burns in him has made him who he is today,” Patrick said.
