5G coronavirus: Can 5G cause illness? Experts speak out | Science | News | Express.co.uk Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. 19°C Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Login Register Your Account Sign Out Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Discounts Shop Paper HOME News Showbiz & TV Sport Comment Finance Travel Entertainment Life & Style UK Weather Politics Royal World Science Nature Sunday Weird Scotland Home News Science 5G coronavirus: Can 5G cause illness? Experts speak out CONSPIRACY theorists have been vandalising phone masts across the UK, claiming the introduction of 5G is helping to spread the deadly coronavirus. But can 5G cause COVID-19? By Sean Martin PUBLISHED: 17:49, Wed, Apr 8, 2020 | UPDATED: 19:23, Wed, Apr 8, 2020 0 At least 20 phone masts in the UK have been vandalised amid bizarre claims that newly introduced 5G signals are responsible for the COVID-19 outbreak. Some conspiracy theorists have laid out baseless claims 5G somehow hampers the immune system and the radiation helps spread the coronavirus. There is zero evidence to suggest 5G signals have negative effects on your immune system. Related articles Lewis Hamilton pinpoints secret to success as F1 star opens up How coronavirus could see Prince Harry and Prince Andrew in power 5G is the successor to 4G with download speeds theoretically reaching 10 gigabytes per second – whereas 4G had a max of 300 megabytes per second. This has some conspiracy theorists concerned the increased radio frequency across the planet could be detrimental to our health. To establish the 5G network thousands of antennae have had to be installed which has some worried. On top of that, 5G will use higher radio frequencies which are more concentrated than the signals used by 4G systems which has again triggered health concerns. BACK BRITAIN'S BRAVE NHS HEROES - CLICK HERE NOW 5G coronavirus: Can 5G cause illness? Experts speak out (Image: GETTY) 5G masts in the UK have been vandalised (Image: GETTY) The theories have been prevalent on social media, with celebrities such as British boxer Amir Kahn and Hollywood actor Woody Harrelson among the stars sharing the claims on their official accounts. Mr Harrelson posted on his Instagram account alongside a supposed report which talks about the alleged negative effects of 5G. He wrote: "Alot of my friends have been talking about the negative effects of 5G My friend camilla seems this to me today and though I haven’t fully vetted it I find it very interesting [SIC]". However, there is absolutely zero evidence to suggest 5G signals have negative effects. READ MORE: Universal Credit claims explode: Sunak admits up to 'five times' usual UK on lockdown (Image: EXPRESS) Related articles Boris Johnson: When did Boris Johnson become Prime Minister? Sunak set for 'emergency tax hike' as coronavirus bill soars to £120bn Experts have weighed in on the debate, blasting the claims that it can help spread the coronavirus as nonsense and "destructive". Stanley Shanapinda, a research fellow at La Trobe University, wrote in an article for The Conversation: "5G radiation can’t penetrate skin, or allow a virus to penetrate skin. "There is no evidence 5G radio frequencies cause or exacerbate the spread of the coronavirus. "Also, the protein shell of the coronavirus is incapable of hijacking 5G radio signals. This is because radiation and viruses exist in different forms that do not interact. DON'T MISS Boris Johnson treatment: What treatment is Boris Johnson receiving? Coronavirus symptoms: NHS worker gives horrifying account of COVID-19 UK coronavirus curve starts to FLATTEN critical care chart gives hope What is coronavirus? (Image: EXPRESS) Trending "One is a biological phenomenon and the other exists on the electromagnetic spectrum. "To many of us, it’s obvious a human virus can’t spread via radio signals, and such a conspiracy may be linked to a wider distrust of the government in general. "Addressing this myth is critical as property is now being damaged, and individuals attacked. Physical and verbal threats to broadband engineers can be added to a long list of assaults on health workers. "At a time when millions are relying on fast internet to work and study from home, vital telecommunications infrastructure is at risk of being destroyed. "Conspiracy theories have motivated arson attacks on 5G towers in Belfast, Liverpool and Birmingham." Related articles Boris Johnson health update: PM 'sitting up in bed' with coronavirus Brave doctor with incurable brain tumour vows to return to NHS Shielding guidance: What to do if you live with someone shielding? Coronavirus Most read in Science Latest videos Comet ATLAS 2020: Comet Y4 breaking up as it approaches the Sun Hair loss treatment: The natural oil shown to stimulate hair growth Sports documentaries: All the best shows you can watch if you're missing sport German economy to suffer biggest collapse in 50 YEARS - Merkel facing disastrous recession Dana White refuses to confirm UFC 249 Indian casino location to keep 'creepy people' away Comet ATLAS 2020: Comet Y4 breaking up as it approaches the Sun Arctic warning: Large and 'unusual' hole opens in ozone above Arctic Moon landing cover-up: How NASA hid secret ceremony from public during Apollo 11 mission NASA news: Hubble Telescope's greatest images after 30 of deep space exploration Yellowstone volcano: How geyser 'burst into life' as USGS records 111 earthquakes  NASA news: Agency celebrates 'successful failure' of Apollo 13 on 50th anniversary Antarctica: Discovery like 'something from a science fiction film’ found below ice exposed WATCH AGAIN: Supermoon 2020 lights up the night sky - In case you missed the Pink Moon Supermoon in pictures: Biggest Full Moon of 2020 lifts spirits during coronavirus lockdown Supermoon tonight: Is the Supermoon tonight? Why is the Moon so bright? Male children more likely to develop coronavirus than females - new figures Fireball video: Huge fireball shoots over Europe 'I thought it was going to strike' When will lockdown end? Research suggests AT LEAST six weeks to contain coronavirus Coronavirus UK: Virus did NOT originate in Wuhan seafood market, claims study ‘No white lights or angels’, THIS is what happens when you die Coronavirus LIVE tracker: Live map allows you to TRACK spread of virus SEARCH CONNECT WITH US Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe to our rss feed TODAY'S PAPER Wednesday, 8th April 2020 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. News UK Weather Politics Royal World Science Nature Sunday Weird Scotland Latest News Brexit European Union Theresa May Angela Merkel Donald Trump The Queen Kate Middleton Meghan Markle Diesel Cancer Diabetes Dementia YouTube Showbiz & TV Celebrity News TV & Radio Sport Football Transfer news Premier League Manchester United Liverpool Arsenal Chelsea Tottenham Hotspur Manchester City West Ham Everton Celtic Rangers Tennis F1 Boxing UFC Cricket Rugby Golf NFL WWE Racing Pictures Celebrity Galleries Royal Galleries Sport Galleries Comment Columnists Express Comment Finance City & Business Personal Finance The Crusader Travel Activity Holidays Travel News Beach Holidays Short & City breaks Cruise Entertainment Films Gaming Music Books Theatre Life & Style Life Style Health Property Cars Food Tech Diets Garden EXPRESS.CO.UK Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Discounts Shop Paper Sitemap Site Archive About Us Journalists How to Complain Report a Tech Issue Advertising Affiliate advertising Cookies Settings Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions Developed by Netro42 Syndication and Licensing Clarifications and Corrections IPSO Regulated Copyright ©2020 Express Newspapers. "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.