All those Trump-style grand pronouncements about winning black and Hispanic voters are falling apart
The Fix
Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump unveils his 10-point plan to crack down on illegal immigration. (David Cruz/AFP/Getty Images)
Trump's black and Latino voter outreach has always had the fantastical sound of something for a vision board or a daily affirmation meant only for private expression. Polls continue to show that Trump's alternating declarations that he can win the black vote or the Hispanic vote have never had a basis in reality. But on Thursday, things got real.
Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles President Alfonso Aguilar decided he'd had enough. So did Texas Hispanic Republican Federation Chair Artemio "Temo" Muniz and Trump National Hispanic Advisory Council member Jacob Monty.
All three men, and an apparently growing list of prominent conservative Latino operatives, announced that they are done with Trump, withdrawing their support or resigning positions inside his campaign. The reason: the uncompromising hard-line immigration speech Trump gave Wednesday. It was as if Trump was speaking from a script with stage instructions which included the words, "avoid any hints of a softer position, or nuance."
And as much of Trump's support from well-known Hispanic politicos began to recede Wednesday, his campaign also clarified the terms of an at least partial surrender on its pursuit of black votes, at least for the moment: its weekend plans went from limited contact with an audience of black voters to assured contact with just one. Trump won't speak to a Detroit black congregation, just sit for a televised interview with a black pastor. Even this would not be unusual if it weren't for the fact that Trump has not shown up and talked to a large group of black voters anywhere. Instead, unlike many other Republicans, he's declined invitations.
Trump's comments aimed at black and Latino voters have always consisted largely of big sweeping statements, photo opportunities and private meetings at Trump Tower. On Wednesday, when Trump gave that immigration speech, the clock simply ran out on Trump's ability to pretend that he can trick or somehow cut a slick deal that allows him to use a subset of well-known conservative Latino political operatives or a large number of black pastors to give off the appearance of broad-based support. It became clearer than ever that the pursuit of non-white votes has largely consisted of insulting commentary camouflaged in concern and delivered to white voters.
There have also been occasional campaign announcements to make sure that the media is aware of the boldface names in minority politics, the infamously villainous reality TV star and one-time Clinton administration staffer, the Trump Foundation worker or prosperity-gospel adhering pastor who are willing to say publicly that they support Trump and will try to convince others to do the same.  But never has Trump come out of one of those Trump Tower meetings and made a specific policy promise or said, on this specific thing, I have changed my mind. He's only said the equivalent of: we talked, I listened.
So there are people, many of them Democrats, who will take in Thursday's Trump news cyclone without even a moment of surprise. Trump, these people will almost certainly say, was never serious, never interested in the political concerns of people of color.
Trump simply wanted to make it seem so to white voters who do not appreciate the divisive, often bigotry-enhanced content of his campaign. Getting well-known Latino political operatives and semi-well-known black pastors and others to back him was always about optics, about appearing less unmistakably offensive to a bigger set of white voters. That's all Trump was really after when he added those lines describing an incredibly dire version of black life in the United States to his stump speech.
It's worth noting that several of those who resigned from Trump's campaign or support operations Thursday described themselves as repulsed by Trump's description of illegal immigrants as a source of criminal and economic peril in the United States and his casual mention that the fewer than 1 million young adults who have gained temporary immigration reprieves and the legal right to work in the United States under Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program (DACA) would have to go. Program over. Nothing more to be said. That, to some of those who stepped away from the Trump campaign, was utterly unacceptable.
Here's why: In reality, those included in the program are mostly young adults still in high school or college. Many are serving in, or have served in, the military. They have lived in the United States for all but a few years of their lives. They do not know their home countries or, in some cases, have anywhere to live and no immediate relatives on whom they could rely if forcibly returned. Consider what Monty, a now former member of the Trump National Hispanic Advisory Council said on CNN Thursday afternoon:
When he called for the deportation of DACA recipients that is completely unrealistic, cruel and ... not to mention not good for the U.S. economy. ... When I saw that I had to resign because I'm not going to be a prop for his image like the president of Mexico was yesterday. I'm unwilling to be part of his propaganda machine.
Republican Presidential nominee Donald Trump, center, joins a group of African American religious leaders to speak to reporters in New York on Nov. 30, 2015.  (Seth Wenig/AP)
Trump already endured that April debacle of a get-together with black pastors at Trump Tower. Several of the pastors whose names had been shared with reporters refused to attend after news of the meeting got out. But this month, a far smaller group of pastors and well-known black Republicans, many of them televangelists and big believers in a theology that insists that the faithful are rewarded with riches and conspicuous material blessings on earth, showed up for another meeting. And to date, most appear to remain firmly in the Trump camp.
Pastor Mark Burns, co-founder and CEO of Christian Television Network, arrives at Trump Tower for a meeting with Republican nominee Donald Trump in New York (Timothy A. Clary/AFP/Getty Images)
Some have large black congregations -- they just may not be large enough, or those pastors influential enough, to move Trump's black voter support numbers in most polls above 4 percent. This is where Trump's weekend visit to Detroit was supposed to come in.
News that Trump will not offer a specific speech to Bishop Wayne T. Jackson's Detroit congregation, nor make himself available for voter questions, did little to shake Jackson's excitement about his planned sit-down with Trump during his own Thursday afternoon CNN interview. Jackson seemed perfectly content, or at least confident, that he can ask a sufficient number of questions to address the concerns of 13 million black Americans.
Trump's plans to "reach out" to black voters through him seem about as likely to work as his efforts to pretend that he had adopted a softer stance on immigration. He remains unwilling or unable to pivot on policy in a way that might help him win a bigger slice of black or Hispanic votes. There isn't a really effective way to campaign or meet with people and disguise that.
