A coronavirus drug seems to work. What's next? - The Hour Subscribe Sign In Home Contact Us Manage Subscription Careers With Us Advertise With Us Archives FAQ Subscribe Newsletters Terms Of Use Digital Edition Submissions Norwalk’s Trevor Cooper wins awards in Darien photo contest Norwalk at 1,544 coronavirus cases and 72 related deaths New Canaan man charged with allowing drinking More than 55% of Fairfield County has been counted in 2020 census News Local Crime Wilton Education Nation World Politics Regional Opinion Were you SEEN? Election Norwalk’s Trevor Cooper wins awards in Darien photo contest Norwalk at 1,544 coronavirus cases and 72 related deaths More than 55% of Fairfield County has been counted in 2020 census 2 Norwalk women arrested after DUI crash in NY Sports High School High School Scoreboard MLB NBA NFL Hockey More Sports Little League Looking Back by George Albano Wilton lineman Gulbin receiving plenty of interest from college Wilton’s Shay part of nationally ranked platform tennis doubles Staples’ Gerig battled through injuries in pursuit of a dream Business Markets Top Workplaces App developer creates space for people to unite after loss With new ginger ale, Norwalk co. tackles Canada Dry, Schweppes Against ‘next normal’ of 6 feet, Norwalk startup tracks Years after $10B deal and 10K jobs ditched, Frontier bankrupt Real Estate Entertainment Movies Arts Music Television Comics Puzzles and Games Events Rowayton Arts Center’s online ‘Spring Juried Show’ winners Norwalk teen becomes most followed Tik Tok user Norwalk teen makes it past blind auditions on 'The Voice' Norwalk TikTok star goes on 'The Tonight Show' with Jimmy Fallon Living Health Family Travel Home and Garden Seniors Religion Food Norwalkers make CT Magazine's 40 Under 40 Class of 2019 Norwalk-area natives make Connecticut Mag 40 Under 40 Undie Sunday at United Church of Rowayton House Calls: New blood pressure recommendations cause headaches Obituaries Classifieds Jobs Cars Today's Paper Insider MenuSections https://www.thehour.com/news/article/A-coronavirus-drug-seems-to-work-What-s-next-15238183.php A coronavirus drug seems to work. What's next? Marilynn Marchione, Ap Chief Medical Writer Updated 5:05 pm EDT, Thursday, April 30, 2020 Gilead Sciences headquarters are seen on Thursday, April 30, 2020, in Foster City, Calif. White House health advisor Dr. Anthony Fauci said Wednesday, April 29 that data from a coronavirus drug trial testing Gilead Sciences' antiviral drug remdesivir showed "quite good news" and sets a new standard of care for COVID-19 patients. less Gilead Sciences headquarters are seen on Thursday, April 30, 2020, in Foster City, Calif. White House health advisor Dr. Anthony Fauci said Wednesday, April 29 that data from a coronavirus drug trial testing ... more Photo: Ben Margot, AP Photo: Ben Margot, AP Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Image 1 of 1 Gilead Sciences headquarters are seen on Thursday, April 30, 2020, in Foster City, Calif. White House health advisor Dr. Anthony Fauci said Wednesday, April 29 that data from a coronavirus drug trial testing Gilead Sciences' antiviral drug remdesivir showed "quite good news" and sets a new standard of care for COVID-19 patients. less Gilead Sciences headquarters are seen on Thursday, April 30, 2020, in Foster City, Calif. White House health advisor Dr. Anthony Fauci said Wednesday, April 29 that data from a coronavirus drug trial testing ... more Photo: Ben Margot, AP A coronavirus drug seems to work. What's next? 1  /  1 Back to Gallery News that an experimental drug seems to be the first effective treatment for the new coronavirus has unleashed a flurry of interest from doctors and patients — and questions about how soon it might be available. Talk turned Thursday to how quickly the federal Food and Drug Administration might act on Gilead Sciences’s remdesivir after preliminary results from a major study found it shortened the recovery time by an average of four days for people hospitalized with COVID-19. “You do now have a drug that you have proven can actually work on the virus,” the National Institutes of Health’s Dr. Anthony Fauci told The Associated Press. “Will it be an overwhelming cure? No, of course not,” Fauci said. But with its use, “you will free up hospital beds, you will take less stress on the health care system.” No treatment currently is approved for treating the virus, which has killed more than 230,000 people worldwide since it emerged late last year. When independent experts monitoring the study called with the news that the drug was working, study leader Dr. Andre Kalil of the University of Nebraska said he was “almost speechless" with joy. Here are some questions about the results and next steps. Q: How much does the drug help? A: Remdesivir reduced the time patients were in the hospital by 31% to 11 days on average versus 15 days for those just given usual care, preliminary results of the study found. The drug also might be reducing deaths, although that’s not certain from the partial results revealed so far. About 8% of those on the drug died versus 11.6% of the comparison group, but the difference is not large enough for scientists to say for sure that the drug was the reason. Q: What about folks with milder illness? A: Remdesivir so far has only been tested in people with moderate to severe illness who were hospitalized and got it through an IV. Even among those in the study there was “a very big span of illness,” from people just needing a little extra oxygen to those requiring breathing machines, said Dr. Elizabeth Hohmann, who enrolled 49 patients in the study at Massachusetts General Hospital. “We need more information to see how best to use it going forward” and which types of patients get the most benefit, she said. Q: When will it be available and for whom? A: The drug is not yet approved anywhere in the world for any use. The FDA could make it immediately available through an “emergency use authorization,” which speeds experimental drugs, tests and other medical products to patients during public health crises. Under the authorization, the agency can waive the usually rigorous standards necessary for drug approval and instead approve drugs whose potential benefits outweigh its risks. The FDA has already done that for hydroxychloroquine, a malaria drug President Donald Trump has touted for COVID-19, despite no clear evidence it works. Fauci said on NBC’s “Today” show Thursday morning that he expects remdesivir to get emergency use approval “really quickly,” and that he spoke with FDA commissioner Stephen Hahn about it Wednesday evening. Q: How much remdesivir is there and what will it cost? A: Gilead said it was ramping up production, has 140,000 treatment courses now and is aiming for more than 500,000 by October and more than 1 million by December. Chairman Daniel O’Day said in a letter to the public Wednesday night that all of those courses would be donated. Gilead’s own testing, also revealed on Wednesday, suggests that five days of treatment are as good as 10, so the estimates of how many can be treated with the available supply likely can be doubled, he added. Q: How might having a treatment affect the impact of the pandemic? A: Having to spend less time in the hospital reduces the risk patients will develop complications, such as other infections, or spread the virus to health care workers, Kalil said. Those benefits extend not just to the patients who receive the drug but others as well, too, said Dr. Aneesh Mehta, who enrolled 103 patients on the study at Emory and other Atlanta hospitals “We create more availability in our hospitals,” and can take care of more patients with other medical problems, including those who have been forced to delay surgeries for cancer, bad hearts and other maladies, Mehta said. Q: What about other drugs in testing? A: Remdesivir will become the standard of care and any other potential treatments will now have to be tested against or in combination with it, Fauci said. He recalled AZT, the first drug shown to help people with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. That drug by itself proved not terribly strong, but it led to a host of others being developed and the notion of combination treatments that are used now for HIV, tuberculosis and other diseases. Dr. Max Parmar, director of the clinical trials unit at University College London, said it was likely remdesivir would need to be combined with other treatments to more successfully treat COVID-19, since many other diseases do. The study “suggests remdesivir could be the backbone of treatment, but other drugs may be needed,” he said. Q: Will having a treatment cause people to ease up on social distancing and other measures to limit the spread? A: “I hope not,” Fauci said. “This is not a knockout punch. This is not a cure.” ___ Associated Press writers Matthew Perrone in Washington and John Leicester in London contributed to this report. Follow Marchione on Twitter at http://twitter.com/MMarchioneAP ___ The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives suppor t from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content. The Hour Insider Thumbnail Collection See the Insider homepage UConn says coronavirus could cost $120 million in lost revenue BY Liz Teitz NCAA takes step in right direction, but questions, speculation... BY Jeff Jacobs Purdue Pharma donates $2M for coronavirus, opioid relief BY Paul Schott Projected to lose $1.5 billion, CT hospitals wait for more... BY Emilie Munson Fears mount for immigrants during coronavirus crisis BY Justin Papp Today's Top Insider Stories Our journalists provide in-depth analysis and reporting about the people, places and issues that matter most to you. Subscribers get access to all of their comprehensive coverage. Stories from Insider LISTEN: Exit 43 Podcast Hear the latest episode of our new podcast Most Popular 1 Trump presented with grim internal polling showing him losing to Biden 2 One in six nursing homes across nation report an outbreak 3 'Quarantine fatigue' continues for second week, showing a worrisome trend, researchers say 4 New Canaan man charged with allowing drinking 5 Rapid coronavirus testing available Thursday in Danbury 6 OANN is booted from White House press room after correspondent makes second unauthorized appearance 7 Stamford teacher becomes baby’s temporary guardian after mom gets coronavirus View Comments © 2020 Hearst Communications, Inc. Logo Return to Top About Newspaper Delivery Safety Procedures Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Careers Advertising Contact Contact Us FAQ Today's eEdition Submissions Connect Newsletter Sign-Up Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest Hearst Newspapers © Copyright Hearst Media Services Connecticut, LLC