Bright light, disinfectant in body not recommended tactics to fight coronavirus, expert says Skip to content Your Photos Closings & Delays Community Calendar What's On CBS, FOX, NBC, & CW Contests About KEYC NBC Business Guide Watch Live News Weather Sports Community About Us Coronavirus Advertise Home Watch Live Your Photos Send Us a News Tip News KEYC News Now This Morning Agriculture Crime Iowa Minnesota National News Weather Closings Closing Alerts Closings Admin Minnesota Road Conditions Iowa Road Conditions Weather Blog Sports High School College Sports Extra Triple Play Prep Athlete of the Week Prep Athlete of the Week Nominations Community Bandwagon Community Calendar Education Health Mr. Food Pick of the Litter Golden Apple Golden Apple Nominations Business Hometown Connection Advertise Programming Schedule Circle - Country Music & Lifestyle Full Court Press with Greta Van Susteren About Us Satellite Carriage Requests Where to Find KEYC Where to Find NEYC Contact Us National Politics Bright light, disinfectant in body not recommended tactics to fight coronavirus, expert says Trump suggests dangerous tactics to fight coronavirus April 24, 2020 at 5:42 AM CDT - Updated April 24 at 5:42 AM (CNN) - Drinking disinfectant to try and kill the coronavirus? That’s not something the Food and Drug Administration’s commissioner Stephen Hahn would recommend. He made that clear Thursday after an eyebrow-raising moment at the daily White House coronavirus task force briefing. President Donald Trump suggested scientists should explore using UV light and disinfectant to treat the virus in humans. “So supposing we hit the body with a tremendous, whether it’s ultraviolet or just very powerful light. And I think you said that hasn’t been checked but you’re going to test it. Then I said supposing you brought the light inside the body, which you could do, either through the skin or some other way and I think you said you were going to test that, too. Sounds interesting,” Trump said. “Then I see the disinfectant, where it knocks it out in a minute, one minute. Is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside, or almost a cleaning because you see it gets on the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs. So it will be interesting to check that. That you’re going to have to use medical doctors. But it sounds interesting to me,” he added. Doctors warn high-intensity UV lamps and sun exposure will not protect you from the coronavirus. They also note that kind of exposure comes with other dangers. It can cause sunburns, skin cancer, and other illnesses. Covid-19 has been in the U.S. infecting people for longer than you think Copyright 2020 CNN. All rights reserved. 46 Currently in Mankato, MN Full Forecast Subscribe to KEYC News Now Updates RECENT CONTENT   Countries take different approaches in lifting lockdown In a trend seen around the globe, roughly 26 million Americans — the population of the 10 biggest U.S. cities combined — have filed for jobless aid in five weeks. By  DAVID CRARY, REGINA GARCIA CANO and ELAINE KURTENBACH   Trump set to sign bill with nearly $500B more in virus aid The bipartisan measure passed as lawmakers gathered in Washington as a group for the first time since March 27, adopting stricter social distancing rules while seeking to prove they can do their work despite the COVID-19 crisis. By  ANDREW TAYLOR and ALAN FRAM Lawmakers discuss House vote on latest coronavirus aid By  Gray DC Staff and Associated Press Published April 23, 2020 at 11:09 PM Biden backs mail vote, says Trump’s opposition ‘un-American’ By  BILL BARROW Published April 23, 2020 at 9:23 PM   Virus pushes US unemployment toward highest since Depression By  DAVID CRARY, KATHY GANNON, and ANGELA CHARLTON Published April 23, 2020 at 9:19 PM   Trump’s criticism adds to tough choices in Georgia reopening Published April 23, 2020 at 7:42 PM 1570 Lookout Drive North Mankato, MN 56003 (507) 625-7905 Contact Us FCC Public File publicfile@keyc.com 507-625-7905 EEO Report KEYC Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Services FCC Public File publicfile@keyc.com 507-625-7905 EEO Report KEYC Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Services