Clinton knocks Trump over Florida AG donation, accuses him of ‘scams’
Post Politics
Hillary Clinton takes questions from the press corps Sept. 6 aboard her new campaign plane, which was bound for Florida. (Melina Mara/The Washington Post)
Hillary Clinton on Tuesday accused Donald Trump of obfuscating on an improper political donation he made to the reelection campaign of Florida’s attorney general, calling on him to detail his conversations with the official while questioning his character.
The Democratic nominee accused her rival of concealing details about his communications with Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi (R), to whom Trump made a $25,000 political contribution in 2013 as Bondi was considering opening an investigation into Trump University.
“Of course, as we know, there was a phone conversation between them. They contradict each other. The American people deserve to know what was said, because clearly the attorney general did not proceed with the investigation,” Clinton told reporters Tuesday during a question-and-answer session on her campaign plane.
The donation was made to a pro-Bondi political organization days after her office disclosed that it was looking into the for-profit education business. Bondi ultimately decided not to open an investigation, prompting scrutiny from critics and local media at the time.
Clinton on Tuesday accused Trump of engaging in "scams" throughout his business career, and she specifically criticized Trump University. She also said that Trump should publicly release his tax returns.
“Clearly his tax returns tell a story that the American people deserve and need to know,” Clinton said. “I’m going to continue to raise this, because I think it is a fundamental issue about him in this campaign that we’re going to talk about in one way or another for the next 62 days, because he clearly has something to hide. We don’t know exactly what it is, but we’re getting better guesses about what it probably is. If he’s going to pursue this campaign, he owes it to the American people to come clean.”
Trump on Monday told reporters that he had not engaged in quid pro quo: “I never spoke to her, first of all. She’s a fine person, beyond reproach. I never even spoke to her about it at all. She’s a fine person. Never spoken to her about it, never,” he said.
It is not immediately clear whether Trump meant that he had not discussed the Trump University case or the donation itself; his campaign declined to comment Monday when asked for clarification.
A former Bondi aide told the Associated Press in June that the attorney general solicited the donation directly. Her office has not responded to inquiries by The Post about the timeline of her solicitation. The Trump campaign declined to respond when asked whether Trump spoke with Bondi directly.
Those questions notwithstanding, the donation itself violated restrictions preventing charities from making political contributions to candidates. Trump’s team told The Post in March that the donation was meant to be paid out of Trump’s personal account; instead, because of an error, the money was paid by the foundation. Because of that initial mistake, the foundation also failed to report that it had made any political donations that year to the Internal Revenue Service.
The foundation said Trump, whose campaign has characterized the disclosure error as a minor mistake, paid a $2,500 penalty for the error.
Clinton’s own family foundation has faced intense scrutiny over her communications with top donors while she was secretary of state.
