Chinese Pork Recipe - Pork Tenderloin with Ginger Diana's Kitchen Main Recipe Index      Search      New Recipes Recipe Index Easy Skillet Recipes Appetizers Beans/Grains Breads/Muffins Cajun Recipes Cakes/Desserts Casseroles Cookies Candy Chicken Recipes Beef Ground Beef Pork Turkey Fish/Seafood Pasta, Cheese, etc. Italian Recipes Pressure Cooker Salad Recipes Sandwich Recipes Sauces/Seasonings Soups Veggies Recipes from Readers Favorites & Holiday Recipes from southernfood.about.com Crockpot Recipes Index Macaroni and Cheese Pork Tenderloin Chicken Breast Recipes Meatloaf Recipes Dessert Recipes Holiday Appetizers Halloween Recipes Thanksgiving Christmas Recipes Super Bowl New Year's Day Dinner Valentine's Day Recipes Recipe Search Diana's Kitchen SouthernFood Web Printer-Friendly Copy of the Following Recipe Chinese Pork Recipe 1 pound pork tenderloin (2 tenderloins) 4 teaspoons reduced sodium soy sauce 2 tablespoons dry sherry 2 teaspoons lemon juice 2 teaspoons powdered ginger, or 2 tablespoons grated ginger root Rinse pork; dry and trim excess fat. Cut tenderloins in half crosswise then slice almost through and butterfly, pounding lightly to flatten. In a food storage bag, combine soy sauce, sherry, and lemon juice. Add grated or powdered ginger. Turn pork in marinade to coat. Refrigerate for 1 to 2 hours. Preheat broiler and cover broiler pan with aluminum foil. Broil pork, browning on all sides, basting w/marinade once or twice. Cook for about 5 to 6 minutes on each side, until pork is done (about 160°). Serves 4. Printer-Friendly Copy of this Recipe Scroll down to see related recipes. More Pork Tenderloin Recipes Roast Pork Tenderloin Rosemary Pork Tenderloin Bacon Wrapped Pork Tenderloin Pork with Orange and Basil Pork Tenderloin in Sour Cream Medallions of Pork Tenderloins Cinnamon Apple Pork Tenderloin Pork Tenderloin with Dried Fruit Jamaican Pork Tenderloin Crockpot Pork Tenderloin Creole Crockpot Dijon Pork Tenderloin Pork with Orange Glazed Onions Paprika Pork Mango Pork Peanut Pork Kebabs Pork Medallions with Madeira Pork Medallions with Mushroom-Dill Sauce Back to the Index More Pork Recipes from southernfood.about.com Pork Chop Recipes Pork Recipes - Spareribs, Pork Loin, etc. Sausage Recipes and Hot Dog Recipes Ham Recipes New Recipes at Southern Cuisine Privacy Policy | Contact - Feedback Form | Recipe or Submission Form  ©2008 DianasKitchen.com