Pork Tenderloin Recipe with Potatoes and Green Onions - Skillet Pork Recipe Diana's Kitchen Main Recipe Index      Search      New Recipes Recipe Index Easy Skillet Recipes Appetizers Beans/Grains Breads/Muffins Cajun Recipes Cakes/Desserts Casseroles Cookies Candy Chicken Recipes Beef Ground Beef Pork Turkey Fish/Seafood Pasta, Cheese, etc. Italian Recipes Pressure Cooker Salad Recipes Sandwich Recipes Sauces/Seasonings Soups Veggies Recipes from Readers Favorites & Holiday Recipes from southernfood.about.com Crockpot Recipes Index Macaroni and Cheese Pork Tenderloin Chicken Breast Recipes Meatloaf Recipes Dessert Recipes Holiday Appetizers Halloween Recipes Thanksgiving Christmas Recipes Super Bowl New Year's Day Dinner Valentine's Day Recipes Recipe Search Diana's Kitchen SouthernFood Web Printer-Friendly Copy of the Following Recipe Pork Skillet Supper 2 tablespoons Butter or margarine 1 pound Pork tenderloin, cut in 1/4" pieces 1 can Chicken broth 2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 1/4 teaspoon Salt 1/8 teaspoon Pepper 8 small Red potatoes, quartered 1 cup Mushroom, sliced 1/2 cup Green onions, sliced 2 tablespoons Flour Melt margarine in 12 inch skillet or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add pork slices; cook 3 to 5 minutes or until browned on both sides. Remove pork from skillet; set aside. Reserve 1/4 cup of chicken broth. Add remaining chicken broth, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper and potatoes to skillet. Bring to boil. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 10 minutes or until potatoes are tender. Stir in mushrooms, onions and pork slices. Cover; simmer an additional 5 minutes or until vegetables are tender. In small bowl, combine flour and reserved 1/4 cup chicken broth; blend until smooth. Gradually stir into pork mixture. Cook and stir over medium-high heat until mixture is bubbly and thickened. Serves 4. Printer-Friendly Copy of this Recipe Scroll down to see related recipes. Pork Tenderloin Recipes Roast Pork Tenderloin Bacon Wrapped Pork Tenderloin Rosemary Roast Pork Tenderloin Recipe Pork Tenderloin in Sour Cream Roast Pork Tenderloin Cinnamon Apple Pork Tenderloin Pork Tenderloin with Dried Fruit Jamaican Pork Tenderloin Crockpot Pork Tenderloin Creole Crockpot Dijon Pork Tenderloin Pork with Orange Glazed Onions Paprika Pork Mango Pork Peanut Pork Kebabs Pork Medallions with Madeira Pork Medallions with Mushroom-Dill Sauce Pork Tenderloin in Spiced Bourbon Sauce Pork Tenderloin with Apples - Crockpot Stir-Fry Chile Pork Stuffed Roast Pork Tenderloin Back to the Recipes Index New Recipes at Southern Cuisine Privacy Policy | Contact - Feedback Form | Recipe or Submission Form  ©2008 DianasKitchen.com