Assumptions to the Annual Energy Outlook 2002 - Transportation Demand Module   Assumptions to the Annual Energy Outlook 2002   Transportation Demand Module   The NEMS Transportation Demand Module estimates energy consumption across the nine Census Divisions and over ten fuel types.  Each fuel type is modeled according to fuel-specific technology attributes applicable by transportation mode. Total transportation energy consumption is the sum of energy use in eight transport modes:  light-duty vehicles (cars, light trucks, industry sport utility vehicles and vans), commercial light trucks (8501-10,000 lbs), freight trucks (>10,000 lbs), freight and passenger airplanes, freight rail, freight shipping, and miscellaneous transport such as mass transit. Light-duty vehicle fuel consumption is further subdivided into personal usage and commercial fleet consumption. Key Assumptions Macroeconomic Sector Inputs Macroeconomic sector inputs used in the NEMS Transportation Demand Module (Table 26) consist of the following: gross domestic product (GDP), industrial output by Standard Industrial Classification code, personal disposable income, new car and light truck sales, total population, driving age population, total value of imports and exports, and the military budget.  The share of total vehicle sales that represent light truck sales is assumed to approach fifty percent by 2020. Light-Duty Vehicle Assumptions The light duty vehicle Fuel Economy Module includes 58 fuel saving technologies with data specific to cars and light trucks including incremental fuel efficiency improvement, incremental cost, first year of introduction, and fractional horsepower change.  These assumed technology characterizations are scaled up or down to approximate the differences in each attribute for 6 Environmental Protection Administration (EPA) size classes of cars and light trucks (Tables 27 and 28). The vehicle sales share module holds vehicle sales shares by import and domestic manufacturers constant within a vehicle size class at the 1999 level from the National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration data.30 EPA size class sales shares are projected as a function of income per capita, fuel prices, and average predicted vehicle prices based on endogeous calculations within the Fuel Economy Module.31 The Fuel Economy Module utilizes 58 new texchnologies for each size class and origin of manufacturer (domestic or foreign) based on the cost-effectiveness of each technology and an initial availability year.  The discounted stream of fuel savings is compared to the marginal cost of each technology.  The fuel economy module assumes the following: All fuel saving technologies have a 4-year payback period. The real discount rate remains steady at 8 percent.     Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency standards remain constant at 1998 levels. Expected future fuel prices are calculated based on an extrapolation of the growth rate between fuel prices 3 years and 5 years prior to the present year.  This assumption is founded upon an assumed lead time of 3 to 5 years to significantly modify the vehicles offered by a manufacturer. Degradation factors  (Table 29) used to convert Environmental Protection Agency-rated fuel economy to actual “on the road” fuel economy are based on application of a logistic curve to the projections of three factors:  increases in city/highway driving, increasing congestion levels, and rising highway speeds.32  Degradation factors are also adjusted to reflect the percentage of reformulated gasoline consumed. The vehicle miles traveled (VMT) module forecasts VMT as a function of the cost of driving per mile, income per capita, ratio of female to male VMT, and growth in the driving population.  Coefficients were re-estimated for AEO2002.The ratio of female to male VMT is assumed to asymptotically approach 68 percent by 2020.  Total VMT is calibrated to Federal Highway Administration VMT data.33,34 The fuel price elasticity rises from -0.04 to -0.2 as fuel prices rise above reference case levels in each year. The share of light truck sales (Class 1 and Class 2 trucks) is assumed to reach a maximum of 50 percent of total sales by 2020.  However, the light truck share will gradually decline to 46 percent if fuel prices rise to approximately $1.55 per gallon.  The size class sales shares will also gravitate to 25 percent for subcompacts, 40 percent for compacts,  25 percent for mid size, and 10 percent for luxury if fuel prices exceed reference case levels of approximately $1.55 per/gallon. Commercial Light-Duty Fleet Assumptions With the current focus of transportation legislation on commercial fleets and their composition, the Transportation Demand Module has been redesigned to divide commercial light-duty fleets into three types of fleets:  business, government, and utility.  Based on this classification, commercial light-duty fleet vehicles vary in survival rates and duration in the fleet, before being combined with the personal vehicle stock (Table 30).  Sales shares of fleet vehicles by fleet type also remain constant over the forecast period.  Automobile fleets are divided into the following shares:  business (87.39 percent), government (7.42 percent), and utilities (5.19 percent).  Light truck fleets are divided into the following shares:  business (83.50 percent), government (14.1 percent), and utilities (2.40 percent)35,36.  Both car (23.70 percent) and light truck (28.57 percent) fleet sales are assumed to be a constant fraction of total car and light truck sales. Alternative-fuel shares of fleet sales by fleet type are initially set according to historical shares (business (0.36 percent), government (2.21 percent), utility (2.64 percent))37,38 then compared to a minimum constraint level of sales based on legislative initiatives, such as the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the Low Emission Vehicle Program.39,40  Size class sales shares of  vehicles are held constant at anticipated levels (Table 31).41  Individual sales shares of alternative-fuel fleet vehicles by technology type are assumed to remain at anticipated levels for utility, government, and for business fleets in accordance with the technology shares implied from EIA surveys42,43 (Table 32). Annual VMT per vehicle by fleet type stays constant over the forecast period based on the Oak Ridge National Laboratory fleet data. Fleet fuel economy for both conventional and alternative-fuel vehicles is assumed to be the same as the personal new vehicle fuel economy and is subdivided into six EPA size classes for cars and light trucks. The Light Commercial Truck Model The Light Commercial Truck Module of the NEMS Transportation Model is constructed to represent light trucks that weigh 8,501 to 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (Class 2B vehicles).  These vehicles are assumed to be used primarily for commercial purposes. The module implements a twenty-year stock model that estimates vehicle stocks, travel, fuel efficiency, and energy use by vintage. Historic vehicle sales and stock data, which constitute the baseline from which the forecast is made, are taken from a recent Oak Ridge National Laboratory study.44  The distribution of vehicles by vintage, and vehicle scrappage rates is derived from R.L. Polk company registration data.45,46  Vehicle travel by vintage was constructed using vintage distribution curves and estimates of average annual travel by vehicle.47,48 The growth in light commercial truck VMT is a function of industrial output for agriculture, mining, construction, trade, utilities, and personal travel.  These industrial groupings were chosen for their correspondence with output measures currently being forecast by NEMS.  The overall growth in VMT reflects a weighted average based upon the distribution to total light commercial truck VMT by sector.  Forecasted fuel efficiencies are assumed to increase at the same annual growth rate as light-duty trucks (<8,500 pounds gross vehicle weight). Alternative-Fuel Vehicle Technology Choice Assumptions The Alternative-Fuel Vehicle (AFV) technology choice module utilizes a nested multinomial logit (NMNL) model that predicts sales shares based on relevant vehicle and fuel attributes.  The nesting structure first predicts the probability of fuel choice for multi-fuel vehicles within a technology set.  The second level nesting predicts penetration among similar technologies within a technology set (i.e. gasoline versus diesel hybrids).  The third level choice determines market share among the different technology sets.49  The technology sets include: Conventional fuel capable (gasoline, disel, bi-fuel and flex-fuel), Hybrid (gasoline and disel), Dedicated alternative fuel (CNG, LPG, methanol, and ethanol), Fuel cell (gasoline, methanol, and hydrogen), and Electric battery powered (lead acid, nickel-metal hydride, lithium polymer)50   The vehicles attributes considered in the choice algorithm include: price, maintenance cost, battery replacement cost, range, multi-fuel capability, home refueling capability, fuel economy, acceleration and luggage space.  With the exception of maintenance cost, battery replacement cost, and luggage space vehicle attributes are determined endogenously.51  The fuel attributes used in market share estimation include availability and price.  Vehicle attributes vary by six EPA size classes for cars and light trucks and fuel availability varies by Census division.  The NMNL model coefficients were developed to reflect purchase decisions for cars and light trucks separately. Where applicable, AFV fuel efficient technology attributes are calculated relative to conventional gasoline miles per gallon. It is assumed that many fuel efficiency improvements to conventional vehicles will be transferred to alternative-fuel vehicles. Specific individual alternative-fuel technological improvements are also dependent upon the AFV technology type, cost, research and development, and availability over time.  Make and model availability estimates are assumed values according to a logistic curve based on the initial technology introduction date and are based on current offerings. Coefficients summarizing consumer valuation of vehicle attributes were derived from assumed economic valuation compared to vehicle price elasticities. Initial AFV vehicle stocks are set according to EIA surveys.52,53  A fuel switching algorithm based on the relative fuel prices for alternative fuels compared to gasoline is used to determine the percentage of total VMT represented by alternative fuels in bi-fuel and flex-fuel alcohol vehicles. Freight Truck Assumptions The freight truck module estimates vehicle stocks, travel, fuel efficiency and energy use for three size classes; light medium (Class 3), heavy medium (Classes 4 through 6), and heavy (Classes 7 and 8).  Within size class, the stock model structure is designed to estimate energy use by four fuel types (diesel, gasoline, LPG, and CNG) and twenty vehicle vintages.  Fuel consumption estimates are reported regionally (by Census division) according to the State Energy Data Report distilate regional shares.54  The module uses projections of dollars of industrial output to estimate growth in freight truck travel. Industrial output is converted to an equivalent measure of volume output using freight adjustment coefficients.55,56  These freight adjustment coefficients vary by NEMS Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code, gradually diminishing their deviation over time toward parity.  Freight truck load factors (ton-miles per truck) by SIC code are constants formulated from historical data.57 New freight truck fuel economy is dependent on the market penetration of various emission control technologies and advanced engine components.58  For the advanced engine components, market penetration is determined as a function of technology cost effectiveness and introduction year.  Cost effectiveness is calculated as a function of fuel price, vehicle travel, fuel economy improvement and incremental capital cost.  Emissions control equipment are assumed to enter the market to meet regulated emission standards. Heavy truck freight travel is estimated by size class and fuel type and is based on matching projected freight travel demand (measured by industrial output) to the travel supplied by the current fleet.  Travel by vintage by size class is then adjusted so that total travel meets total demand.  Initial heavy vehicle travel by vintage and size class was derived using Vehicle Inventory and Use Survey (VIUS) data.59 Initial freight truck stocks by vintage are obtained from R.L. Polk Co. and are distributed by fuel type using VIUS data.60 Vehicle scrappage rates were also estimated using R.L. Polk Co. Data.61 Freight and Transit Rail Assumptions The freight rail module receives industrial output by SIC code measured in real 1987 dollars and converts these dollars into an adjusted volume equivalent.  Specific NEMS coal production from the Coal Market Module is also used to adjust coal rail travel.  Freight rail adjustment coefficients, which are used to convert dollars into volume equivalents, remain constant and are based on historical data.62,63  Initial freight rail efficiencies are based on the freight model from Argonne National Laboratory.64 The distribution of rail fuel consumption by fuel type remains constant and is based on historical data.65 Regional freight rail consump- tion estimates are distributed according to the State Energy Data Report 1999.66 Freight Domestic and International Shipping Assumptions The freight domestic shipping module also converts industrial output by SIC code measured in dollars, to a volumetric equivalent by SIC code.67,68  These freight adjustment coefficients are based on analysis of historical data and remain constant throughout the forecast period.  Domestic shipping efficiencies are based on the freight model by Argonne National Laboratory. The energy consumption in the freight international shipping module is a function of the total level of imports and exports. The distribution of domestic and international shipping fuel consumption by fuel type remains constant throughout the analysis and is based on historical data.69  Regional domestic and international shipping consumption estimates are distributed according to the State Energy Data Report  residual oil regional shares.70 Air Travel Demand Assumptions The air travel demand module calculates the ticket price for travel as a function of fuel cost.   Similar to the light-duty vehicle module,  the air travel fuel price elasticity rises from -0.05 to -0.2 if jet fuel prices exceed reference case levels.  A demographic index based on the propensity to fly was introduced into the air travel demand equation.71  The propensity to fly was made a function of the age and gender distribution over the forecast period72,73  The air travel demand module assumes that these relationships between the groups and their propensity to fly remain constant over time.  International revenue passenger miles are based on historical data.74  The revenue ton miles of air freight are based on merchandise exports and gross domestic product. Aircraft Stock/Efficiency Assumptions The aircraft stock and efficiency module consists of a stock model of both wide and narrow body planes by vintage.  The shifting of passenger load between narrow and wide body aircraft is assumed to occur at a constant historical annual 1-percent rate.75 The available seat-miles per plane, which measure the carrying capacity of the airplanes by aircraft type, remain constant and are based on holding the seat-miles and the number of planes constant within an aircraft type.76  The difference between the seat-miles demanded and the available seat-miles represents newly purchased aircraft.  Aircraft purchases in a given year cannot exceed historical annual growth rates, a constraint that sets an upper limit on the application of new aircraft to meet the gap between seat-miles demanded and available seat-miles.  With a constraint on new aircraft purchases, it is assumed that when the gap exceeds historical aircraft sales levels, planes that have been temporarily stored or retired will be brought back into service.  Technological availability, economic viability, and efficiency characteristics of new aircraft are based on the technologies listed in the Oak Ridge National Laboratory Air Transport Energy Use Model. (Table 34)77  Fuel efficiency of new aircraft acquisitions represents, at a minimum, a 5-percent improvement over the stock efficiency of surviving airplanes.78  Maximum growth rates of fuel efficiency for new aircraft are based on a future technology improvement list consisting of an estimate of the introduction year, jet fuel price, and an estimate of the proposed marginal fuel efficiency improvement.  Regional shares of all types of aircraft fuel are assumed to be constant and are consistent with the State Energy Data Report estimate of regional jet fuel shares. Legislation Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPACT) Fleet alternative-fuel vehicle sales necessary to meet the EPACT regulations were derived based on the mandates as they currently stand and the Commercial Fleet Vehicle Module calculations.  Total projected AFV sales are divided into fleets by government, business, and fuel providers (Table 33).  Business fleet EPACT mandates are not included in the projections for AFV sales pending a decision on a proposed rulemaking. Because the commercial fleet model operates on three fleet type representations (business, government, and utility), the federal and state mandates were weighted by fleet vehicle stocks to create a composite mandate for both. The same combining methodology was used to create a composite mandate for electric utilities and fuel providers based on fleet vehicle stocks.79,80  Fleet vehicle stocks by car and light truck were disaggregated to include only fleets of 50 or more (in accordance with EPACT) by using a fleet size distribution function based on The Fleet Factbook and the Truck and Inventory Use Survey.81,82  To account  for the EPACT regulations which stipulate that “covered” fleets (which refer to fleets bound by the EPACT mandates) include only fleets in the metropolitan statistical areas (MSA’s) of 250,000 population or greater, 90 percent of the business and utility fleets were included and 63 percent were included for government fleets.83  EPACT covered fleets were to only include those fleets that could be centrally fueled, which was assumed to be 50 percent of the fleets for all fleet types, and only fleets of 50 or more that had 20 vehicles or more in those MSA’s of 250,000 or greater population; it was assumed that 90 percent of all fleets were within this category except for business fleets, which were assumed to be 75 percent.84 Low Emission Vehicle Program (LEVP) The LEVP, which began in California, was later instituted in New York and Massachusetts, and most recently by Maine and Vermont has now been rolled back to begin in 2003 at the original 10 percent mandate for California, Massachusetts and New York.  All of the ULEV sales were assumed to meet the ULEV air standards with reformulated gasoline and a heated catalytic converter. On November 5, 1998, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) amended the original LEVP to include ZEV credits for advanced technology vehicles.  According to CARB these advanced technology vehicles must be capable of achieving "extremely low levels of emissions on the order of the power plant emissions that occur from charging battery-powered electric vehicles, and some that demonstrate other ZEV-like characteristics such as inherent durability and partial zero-emission range."85 There are three components to calculating the ZEV credit, a baseline ZEV allowance, a zero-emission vehicle-miles traveled (VMT) allowance, and a low fuel-cycle emission allowance.  Using these advanced vehicles in place of ZEV's in order to comply with the LEVP mandates requires assessment of each vehicle characteristic relative to the three criteria allowances. The baseline ZEV allowance potentially can provide up to .2 credits if the advanced technology vehicle meets the: a) Super Ultra Low Emission Vehicle (SULEV) standards contained in the originial LEVP proposal; b) on-board diagnostics requirements (OBD) which illuminates indicators on the dashboard when vehicles are out of emissions compliance levels; c) 150,000 mile emission equipment warranty; and d) evaporative emissions requirements in California which prevent emissions during refueling.  SULEV emissions standards approximate the emissions from powerplants associated with recharing electric vehicles. The second criteria, zero-emission VMT allowance, will allow a maximum .6 credit if the vehicle is capable of some all-electric operation which was fueled by off-vehicle sources (i.e. no on-board fuel reformers), or if the vehicle has ZEV-like equipment on-board such as regenerative braking, advanced batteries, or an advanced electric drivetrain. An emission allowance was also made for low fuel-cycle vehicle fuels used in the advanced technology vehicles.  A maximum of .2 credit is provided for vehicles which use fuel that has less than or equal to .01 nonmethane organic gases (NMOG) grams per mile emissions based on the grams per gallon and the fuel efficiency of the vehicle. Overall, large volume manufacturers can apply ZEV credits up to a maximum of 60 percent of the original 10 percent ZEV mandate; the original ZEV mandate required that all (100 percent) of the 10 percent of all light-duty vehicle sales must be ZEVs (defined only as dedicated electric vehicles) beginning with the 2003 model year.  The remaining 40 percent of the ZEV mandates must still come from electric vehicles, or variants of cell vehicles, which have extremely low emissions such as a hydrogen fuel cell vehicle. In September of 2000, further modifications were proposed for the ZEV mandate.  The proposal was designed to maintain progress towards the 2003 goal while recognizing technology and cost limited ZEV product offerings.  The CARB proposal removed ZEV sales requirements prior to 2003, but maintained the 2003 required ZEV sales goal of 10 percent and requires a gradual increase of ZEV sales to 16 percent by year 2018.  Additionally, the number of vehicles included in the estimation of required ZEV sales has been increased to include small light duty trucks. The proposal also provides manufacturers flexibility in meeting the goal through increased vehicle credits and greater allowances for partial ZEVs (PZEVs) and advanced technology ZEVs (AT-PZEVs).  Prior to 2006, ZEVs earn 1.25 credits per vehicle and PZEVs get a phase-in multiplier of 4, 2, and 1.3 per vehicle for years 2004 through 2006, respectively.  Extra credits will also be allowed for ZEVs with extended range and/or reduced fueling times. The AFV sales module compares these legislatively mandated sales to the results from the AFV logit market-driven sales shares.  The legislatively mandated sales serve as a minimum constraint to AFV sales. According to the EPA federal register, EPA's Tier II proposed regulations for light-duty vehicles below 6000 pounds must meet a sales weighted average of 0.07 grams/mile nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions standard by 2004 and approximately a 0.01 to 0.02 grams/mile standard for particulates.86  The previous Clean Air Act 1990 Tier I emissions standards were set at 0.6 grams per mile for NOx and 0.1 grams per mile for particulates.87  EPA has estimated the costs to consumers range from $100 per car to $200 per light truck.88  However, recently the U.S. Circuit Court ruling determined that EPA was not authorized to set new standards without indicating the benefits of the new regulations. In the National Research Council's (NRC) Fifth Annual Review of Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles (PNGV)89, the NRC committee commented, "the most difficult technical challenge facing the CIDI (compression ignition direct injection diesel) engine program will be meeting the standards for NOx and particulate emissions.  In addition, meeting an even more stringent research objective (0.01 grams/mile) for particulate matter instead of the 0.04 grams/mile PNGV target would require additional technological breakthroughs." The NRC has stated their concern that the Tier II regulations may affect the commercial viability of many advanced vehicles.  Meeting the Tier II proposed standards may:  require trading-off emissions levels for fuel economy by redesigning engines;  add significant cost to a technology due to exhaust catalyst systems and their potential lack of effectiveness; stifle development of diesel technologies as a result of the unknown health effects of particulates;   and result in new specifications for diesel fuel or development of advanced low emission fuels. High Technology and 2002 Technology Cases In the high technology case, the conventional fuel saving technology characteristics came from a study by the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy.90  Tables 35 and 36 summarize the High Technology matrix for cars and light trucks.  High technology case assumptions for heavy trucks reflect the optimistic values, with respect to efficiency improvement, for advanced engine and emission control technologies as reported by ANL.91 The 2002 technology case assumes that new fuel efficiency technologies are held constant at 2002 levels over the forecast.  As a result, the energy use in the transportation sector was 5.9 percent higher (2.34 quadrillion Btu) than in the reference case by 2020.  Both cases were run with only the transportation demand module rather than as a fully integrated NEMS run. Consequently, no potential macroeconomic feedback on travel demand, or fuel economy was captured. The air model in the high technology case assumed efficiency from new aircraft could improve by 40 percent from the 1992 level based on the conclusion from the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board of the National Research Council.92 Contact Us   URL: http://www.eia.doe.gov/oiaf/aeo/assumption/transportation.html (Report#:DOE/EIA-0554(2002) December 21, 2001 (Next Release: December 2002)   Report Contents Download  Entire Report in PDF Format Feedback E-Mail Subscription Lists Related Links Annual Energy Outlook 2002 Supplemental Data to the Annual Energy Outlook 2002 Model Documentation Forecasts Home Page