Battle of Ball’s Bluff - Civil War Battle of Ball’s Bluff Search American History Home Education American History Email American History Wars & Events People Eras Free American History Newsletter!Sign Up Discuss in my Forum Battle of Balls Bluff By Martin Kelly, About.com Filed In: Civil War > Civil War Battles Dates: October 21, 1861 Other Names: Harrison’s Landing, Leesburg Location: Ball’s Bluff, Virginia Key Individuals Involved in the Battle of Ball’s Bluff: Union: Brigadier General Charles P. Stone and Colonel Edward Baker Confederate:Brigadier General Nathan G. Evans Outcome: Confederate Victory. 1,070 casualties of which 921 were Union soldiers. Overview of the Battle : Confederate Brig. Gen. Nathan “Shanks” Evans stopped a badly coordinated attempt by Union forces under Brig. Gen. Charles P. Stone to cross the Potomac at Harrison’s Island and capture Leesburg. A timely Confederate counterattack drove the Federals over the bluff and into the river. More than 700 Federals were captured. Col. Edward D. Baker (a U.S. Senator) was killed. This Union rout had severe political ramifications in Washington and led to the establishment of the Congressional Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War. Source: CWSAC Battle Summaries Resources Related to the Battle of Ball’s Bluff Civil War BattlesCivil War Generals and SoldiersCivil War Leaders Related Articles 1800s Military History Timeline Battle of Drewrys Bluff - Civil War Battle of Drewrys Bluff Battle of Crater - Civil War Battle of Crater Battle of Fisher’s Hill - Civil War Battle of Fisher’s Hill Second Battle of Fort Sumter - Civil War Second Battle of Fort Sumter Guide since 2001 Martin Kelly American History Guide Sign up for my Newsletter My Blog My Forum Explore American History Must Reads 13 Original Colonies Civil War Central Top 10 Elections Presidents of the US Today in American History Most Popular Chart of the Thirteen Original Colonies - Basic Information ...Causes of the Great DepressionTop Causes of the Civil WarPresidential InaugurationIndustrial Revolution Inventors Chart Free American History Newsletter!Sign Up By Category Civil War Colonial America Industrial Revolution World War II Eras of American History Wars and Diplomacy Historical Figures Government and Politics American Culture Economic History States and Territories Social History Science and Technology Historical Fun & Resources Scandals and Crime More from About.com Super Bowl XLIIIFrom the field to the party, wee got you covered. Parenting TipsKeep kids involved and help them succeed. 48 Hours in VegasWin a weekend getaway in Sin City! Financial PlanningStay on top with our smart financial tips. Browse All About.com American History Home Education American History Civil War Civil War Battles Battle of Ball’s Bluff - Civil War Battle of Ball’s Bluff Most Popular Latest Articles Add to: iGoogle My Yahoo! RSS Advertising Info News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Our Story Be a Guide ©2009 About.com, a part of The New York Times Company. All rights reserved.