Battle of Marrieta - Civil War Battle of Marrieta Search American History Home Education American History Email American History Wars & Events People Eras Free American History Newsletter!Sign Up Discuss in my Forum Battle of Marrieta By Martin Kelly, About.com Filed In: Civil War > Civil War Battles Dates: June 9-July 3, 1864 Other Names: Marietta Operations, Pine Hill, Pine Mountain, Brushy Mountain, Lost Mountain, Gilgal Creek, Noonday Creek, Ruff’s Mill Location: Marrieta, Georgia Key Individuals Involved in the Battle of Marrieta: Union: Major General William T. Sherman Confederate: General Joseph E. Johnston Outcome: Union Victory. casualties unknown. Overview of the Battle : During the Atlanta Campaign, Sherman maneuvered Johnston's Confederate army out of several successive defensive positions in Cobb County. This strategy spared the Union army from making costly frontal attacks on the well-situated Confederates. Sherman first found Johnston's army entrenched in the Marietta area on June 9. The Confederate's had established defensive lines along Brushy, Pine, and Lost Mountains. Sherman extended his forces beyond the Confederate lines, causing a partial Rebel withdrawal to another line of positions. After further pressure and skirmishing from Union forces, Johnston withdrew to an arc-shaped position centered on Kennesaw Mountain on June 18 and 19. Sherman made some unsuccessful attacks on this position but eventually extended the line on his right and forced Johnston to withdrawal from the Marietta area on July 2-3. Source: CWSAC Battle Summaries Resources Related to the Battle of Marrieta Civil War BattlesCivil War Generals and SoldiersCivil War Leaders Related Articles Battle of Shiloh - Civil War Battle of Shiloh American Civil War in the West 1863 to 1865 - Civil War Fighting in the Wes... Battle of Bentonville - Civil War Battle of Bentonville Battle of Kennesaw Mountain - Civil War Battle of Kennesaw Mountain Battle of Honey Springs - Civil War Battle of Honey Springs Guide since 2001 Martin Kelly American History Guide Sign up for my Newsletter My Blog My Forum Explore American History Must Reads 13 Original Colonies Civil War Central Top 10 Elections Presidents of the US Today in American History Most Popular Chart of the Thirteen Original Colonies - Basic Information ...Causes of the Great DepressionTop Causes of the Civil WarTheodore Roosevelt's BiographyIndustrial Revolution Overview Free American History Newsletter!Sign Up By Category Civil War Colonial America Industrial Revolution World War II Eras of American History Wars and Diplomacy Historical Figures Government and Politics American Culture Economic History States and Territories Social History Science and Technology Historical Fun & Resources Scandals and Crime More from About.com Home for the HolidaysYour guide to the season's best food, entertaining, and gifts. Make Meals EasyAn easy way to put delicious meals together. Parenting TipsKeep kids involved and help them succeed. Financial PlanningStay on top with our smart financial tips. Browse All About.com American History Home Education American History Civil War Civil War Battles Battle of Marrieta - Civil War Battle of Marrieta Most Popular Latest Articles Add to: iGoogle My Yahoo! RSS Advertising Info News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Our Story Be a Guide ©2009 About.com, a part of The New York Times Company. All rights reserved.