Dog Supplies, Cat, Pet Supplies, Dog Beds, Dog Fences, Pet Fence Your Cart 0 items in your cart Total $0.00 View Cart  |  Checkout          Advanced Search       Dog   All Categories   Agility Equipment   Air Purifiers   Allergy Relief   Beds   Bones   Carriers   Casual Cratewear   Chains   Clothing   Cooling Jackets   Collars   Containment   Crates   Dog Kennels   Doggles   Doors   Electronics   Exercise Pens   Feeding   Fences   Flea & Tick   Floor Protection   Gates   Grooming   Health Care   Houses   Leashes   Medication   Muttluks   No Bark Collars   Oral Care   Outdoors   Patio Dog Doors   Puppy Package   Ramps   Shampoo   Shed Control   Sport Dog   Stain & Odor   Stairs   Strollers   Supplements   Tie Outs   Tracking Collars   Training Aids   Toys   Training Collars   Travel   Treats   Vitamins   Waste Disposal   Watering       Cat     All Categories     Air Purifiers   Beds   Carriers   Cat Doors   Dental Care   Feeding   Flea & Tick   Furniture   Grooming   Hairballs   Housebreaking   Kennels   Litter Pans   Scratching Posts   Shampoo   Stain & Odor   Strollers   Supplements   Toys   Treats   Vitamins   Watering       Bird All Categories Accessories Cages Health Care Hummingbird Medication Toys Watering Wild Birds       Fish     All Categories     Accessories   Chemicals   Filters   Food   Heaters   Pumps       Reptile     All Categories     Food   Travel       Small Animal     All Categories     Accessories   Cages   Feeding   Gerbil   Guinea Pig   Hamster   Health Care   Rabbit   Watering       Specialties     All Categories     Apparel   Gifts   Jewelry   Memorials   Pond Supplies Add this page to your favorites Send this page to a friend Quick Navigation Links  Dog Supplies  Cat Supplies  Bird Supplies  Small Animal Supplies  Reptile Supplies  Fish Supplies     Pet Supplies Pet Street Mall offers online pet supplies, online cat supplies and other online dog supplies. Pet Street Mall has containment supplies for pets and dogs, including dog crates and pet cages. We are your pet supplies store for quality Petsafe dog Fences or Innotek electronic dog fences and pet fences. Our online dog store offers dog containment systems, both underground dog fences and the wireless pet fence. We have a great assortment of collars: designer, leather, as well as dog shock collars and bark collars. For all of your pet supply needs please consider us. We are online and easy to find. Our Online Pet Supplies Store uses advanced online Internet secure encrypted ordering for your safety and protection. Our Pet Supplies customer service staff is always ready to assist. Dog Supplies  Dog Fence, Electronic Dog Fences, Bark Collars and Dog Training Shock Collars featuring Petsafe and Innotek Pet Street Mall dog supplies is your source for electronic dog fences and pet fences. We offer both underground pet fences and Petsafe wireless dog fences. The expensive and somewhat ugly chain link dog fences have fallen by the wayside in favor of the new electronic dog fences. We feature only the premier manufacturers of electronic pet products: Petsafe and Innotek. If you are looking for a dog fences system we have the best. Our dog fences can be buried underground or placed on top of the ground with specialized ground staples. Wireless dog fences are one of a kind and made only by Petsafe. These new dog containment fences and dog containment systems have shown themselves to be not only effective for pet containment but safe and humane as well. Pioneered by Innotek, the newer pet containment fences and pet containment systems feature run through prevention, a patent held only by Innotek. They also feature 24/7 battery back up, rechargeable and Ultra microline dog shock collars. These features create a safe barrier for a dog fence. Pet containment systems are also dog containment barriers and training combinations known as "Contain and Train", a special type of dog fence. These are not the only electronic pet solutions that we offer from Petsafe and Innotek; we also carry a large number of dog training shock collars. These training collars do not shock a dog but instead provide a safe static correction. In addition to pet training shock collars, we also offer dog bark collars. As with the training collars, bark collars do not shock but also offer a safe static correction. When you purchase your Petsafe dog fences, Innotek dog fence, or training shock collar, feel assured that you have the best. Pet Street Mall has been the leader in safe and effective electric pet products for the past decade. We offer more containment dog fences and dog containment systems for your pet than any other online pet supplies retailer. If you need a pet fence, we have it. We offer the basic containment dog fence, the 2 pet fence, the 3 pet fence, dog fences with a training shock collar and the wireless dog fence. All fences, training collars, bark collars, and shock collars use radio signals as opposed to ugly chain link. Remember no shock, just a static correction. The fact that there is no shock is important. Some feel that there is a shock or a strong shock, but this is not the case. On a dog fence, bark collar, or dog fences and training systems you can adjust the level of shock (static stim) correction. Pet Supplies: Crates and Cages for Pets, Dogs and Cats, Plus Dog Pens and Pet Pens Pet Street Mall offers all of our Dog Crates and Exercise Pens at the Lowest Price on the Internet. Dog containment may be a dog fence, a dog pen or a dog crate. We have cages for ferrets, birds, rabbits, as well as the containment you need. We offer the popular Life Stages dog crates and the Better Buy dog crates by Midwest. Dog crates are made as "Fold and Carry" dog crates and "Drop Pin" dog crates. The most popular are the "Fold and "Carry" dog crates. Midwest is the nation's leading manufacturer of dog crates and pet crates. Midwest also makes the finest dog pens. Midwest dog play pens can be combined with Midwest dog crates for added room. Remember our pet crates and pet cages are great for small animals like rabbits as well. We offer both the older style "Drop Pin" dog crates and the new folding dog crates. We also offer a wicker dog crate, a soft dog crate, designer dog crates and Jeep dog crates. The Midwest Life Stages crates are offered as single door dog crates, double door dog crates and triple door dog crates. The triple door dog crate is the strongest dog crate on the market. All of these dog crates are "Fold and Carry" crates. We do also offer a crate in the old "Drop Pin" style. those are the starter series dog crates, better buy dog crates, and concepts dog crates. We offer the largest collection of soft dog crates online. We offer the Day Tripper dog crate, the Canine Camper dog crate, Petgear dog crate, Jeep dog crate, and SUV dog crate. We offer the Bay Isle wicker dog crate, or the brown or natural Herzers dog crate. If you need a crate, cage, or pen for your dog, cat or other pet, look to us for great customer service, fast shipping and low prices. Pet Products Dog Doors, Pet Doors, Patio Pet Doors, Cat Doors We offer a variety of dog doors and pet doors. We offer only the premier brands; Petsafe, Staywell and Ideal dog doors. All of our manufacturers offer plastic dog doors and aluminum dog doors, however Staywell offers an electronic dog door and an electronic cat door. These pet doors only allow your pet to enter or exit the door. Your pet wears a small and simple Staywell electronic key which allows the Staywell pet door to selectively recognize your pet. In addition to regular pet doors we offer patio pet doors. Patio pet doors allow you to provide your pet a door into and out of your house through your sliding patio door. A patio dog door will accommodate small dogs or large dogs, and now we even offer a patio cat door. For cold climates we offer a ruff weather pet door. This pet door is insulated with twin vinyl magnetic flaps and two door sliders for added insulation. When it comes to pet doors we offer a complete selection. Online Pet Supplies Pet Street Mall is your one stop shop for all of your online pet supplies. Our online pet supplies store is separated into dog supplies, cat supplies, bird supplies, fish supplies, reptile supplies and small animal supplies. Online ordering is simple and safe, plus we have a great customer service staff available to assist. Dog Supplies Pet Street Mall offers an unparalleled assortment of dog supplies. We offer dog fences supplies, underground dog fences and an above ground dog fences alternative. Our dog supplies section has a vast selection of collars, bark collars, shock collars, dog training collars, nylon and leather dog collars. If your dog supplies need is dog crates, we have the best assortment at the lowest prices. We offer a variety of dog crates, folding dog crates and drop pin dog crates. We have the dog pens that attach to your dog crates. Please feel free to browse our vast assortment of dog supplies, and if you have any questions please call. Dog Supplies Sale This is the season for outdoor activity and fun with your dog. For a limited time we are offering many dog fences with a free upgrade. Installation of an electronic dog Fences is simple, but it is even easier with Fast Trac wire. We are offering free Fast Trac wire with your dog fence. In addition, we are offering a free lightning protector with your electronic dog fence. The lightning protector helps to protect the electronic components in the dog fences transmitter and also helps to protect your home. Another great feature of the free lightning protector is its full lifetime warranty. In the event of a lightning strike damaging the electronic components of the lightning protector, contact Petsafe and they will send you a new unit. Thank you! Radio Systems is the owner of the Petsafe, Innotek, Sportdog and Invisible Fence brands. PetStreetMall does not sell the Invisible Fence dog Fence Brand. However we do sell both the Innotek and Petsafe dog fence. Invisible Dog Fence collars will not work with Petsafe or Innotek dog fences, likewise Innotek and Petsafe collars will not work with the Invisible Dog Fence. Invisible FenceTM is a registered trademark of Radio Systems Corp. Quality Dog and Cat Pet Beds If you are looking for a Dog Bed, Pet Bed or Cat Bed, we have one for you. We carry the largest selection of Quality Dog Beds on the Internet. All of our Beds are individually selected, and priced at the Lowest possible price anywhere. If you are shopping during the fall or winter months we suggest you consider a heated dog bed. We offer many heated beds with great styling and comfort with the added benefit of theraputic heat. Pet Street Mall Quick Links: Pet Supplies Dog Supplies Cat Supplies Bird Supplies Advantage Flea Control Advantage Frontline Flea Tick Control Agility Equipment Bark Collar, Bark Collars Bark Control Collars Booster Bath Bowsers Dog Beds Canine Cooler Dog Advantage Flea Control Dog Bark Collars Dog Bed, Dog Beds Dog Bones, Rawhide Dog Cages, Dog Cage Dog Clothing Dog Collars & Dog Leashes Dog Crates, Dog Crate Dog Dental Care & Dog Oral Care Dog DNA Test Dog Doors, Dog Door Dog Fence, Dog Fences, Dog Fencing Dog Frontline Flea Control Dog Frontline Plus Dog Gate Dog Gates Dog Grooming Dog Health Care & Medication Dog Houses Dog K9 Advantix Dog K9 Advantix Dog Life Jackets Dog Pens, Dog Pen Dog Pet Car Seats Dog Ramps & Pet Ramps Dog Seat Belts & Safety Restraints Dog Toys Dog Training Collar Dog Training Collars Dog Vehicle Barriers Dog Vitamins Dog Waste Disposal Systems Doggie Dooley Supplies Doggles Electric Dog Fence Electric Dog Fences Electronic Dog Fences Electronic Dog Fences Frontline Flea Control Frontline Plus Dog Flea Tick Control Heated Cat Bed, Heated Cat Beds Heated Dog Beds Heated Pet Bed, Heated Pet Beds Indoor Containment Innotek Innotek Fence Kong Dog Toys Muttluks No Bark Collars Outdoor Containment Patio Pet Dog Doors Pet Carriers Pet Containment Pet Doors, Pet Door Pet Electronic Systems Pet Feeder & Waterer Pet Gates Pet Strollers & Dog Strollers Pet Vitamins & Pet Supplements PetSafe Petsafe Fence Shock Collar, Dog Shock Collars Shock Collar, Shock Collars Snoozer Dog Beds Gun Dog Collars, Gun Dog, Hunting Dog SportDog Tracking Systems Training Collars Travel & Outdoors Treats Underground Dog Fence Wireless Dog Fence Wireless Fence Site Map Resources 1 2 3 4 5 6