Blue Throated Hummingbird | Bird N Garden Search Pages About Us Bird Seed Contact Finch American Goldfinch Cassin’s Finch Common Rosefinch House Finch Pine Siskin Purple Finch Gift Packs HummingBirds Allen’s Hummingbird Anna’s Hummingbird Black Chinned Hummingbird Blue Throated Hummingbird Broad Billed Hummingbird Buff Bellied Hummingbird Ruby Throated Hummingbird Xantus’s Hummingbird Junco Dark-Eyed Junco Gray-Headed Junco Oregon Junco Pink-Sided Junco Red-Backed Junco Slate-Colored Junco White-Winged Junco Yellow-Eyed Junco Links Nesting Boxes Squirrel Feeders Suet Wooden Bird Feeders Categories Birds Garden Gifts Home News Uncategorized Archives April 2008 November 2007 October 2007 September 2007 August 2007 July 2007 May 2007 April 2007 Recent Posts Hire a Helper Stainless Steel: The hottest new home accessory Home Security Hilton Garden Inn New York/Chelsea Opens In The Big Apple (E-Hospitality.com) Olive Garden gives newest EP eatery the Tuscan touch (El Paso Times) Recent Comments Personal Finance » Central Garden Withdraws 4Q Outlook (AP via Yahoo! Finance) on Central Garden Withdraws 4Q Outlook (AP via Yahoo! Finance) University Update - Yahoo - 2 Garden City Schools Vandalized (WDIV ClickOnDetroit.com via Yahoo! News) on 2 Garden City Schools Vandalized (WDIV ClickOnDetroit.com via Yahoo! News) University Update - Yahoo - Research and Markets: Lawn & Garden Products and Services in the United States (Business Wire via Yahoo! Finance) on Research and Markets: Lawn & Garden Products and Services in the United States (Business Wire via Yahoo! Finance) University Update - Yahoo - Clever Bird Shows Off Fishing Skills (KITV TheHawaiiChannel.com via Yahoo! News) on Clever Bird Shows Off Fishing Skills (KITV TheHawaiiChannel.com via Yahoo! News) University Update - Yahoo - Moodys Lowers Central Garden Ratings (AP via Yahoo! Finance) on Moody’s Lowers Central Garden Ratings (AP via Yahoo! Finance) Blogroll Add URL Animal News Daily News MissDanni Music News Web Everything Sites To See Baby Shower Favors Canada Gardens Canary Committee Corporate Gourmet Gift Baskets Dog Bed Dog Beds Garden Wind Chimes LoveBirds Organic Vegetable Gardening Pet Supplies PetSafe The BlueJays Garden Wedding Favors Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Technorati Blog Information Profile for MissDanni Bird N Garden Wild Garden Bird Feeders & Supplies Blue Throated Hummingbird Blue Throated Hummingbird The Blue-Throated Hummingbird, Lampornis clemenciae, is a species of hummingbird, a member of the Trochilidae family of birds. The Blue-throated Hummingbird is a fairly large hummingbird, reaching 11.5 to 12.5 cm (4½ to 5 inches) in length and 6 to 10 grams in weight. The Blue-throated Hummingbird is dull green on the top of its body, fading to medium gray on its belly. It has a conspicuous white stripe behind its eye and a narrower stripe extending backward from the corner of its bill, bordering a blackish cheek patch. Its tail feathers are iridescent blue-black with broad white tips on the outer two to three pairs. The species gets its name from the adult male’s iridescent blue throat patch (gorget), but the female lacks this, having a plain gray throat. Males sing two types of songs: a simple “peep song,” which sounds like a squeaky wheel, and a quiet but complex “whisper song.” The female is also reported to sing during the breeding season to attract the attention of males. The Blue-throated Hummingbird is native to mountain woodlands of Mexico, although during the summer it is an uncommon to rare resident of moist, wooded canyons in southeastern Arizona, southern New Mexico, and western Texas in the United States. The female constructs her nest from soft plant fibers, held together and attached to its support (a tree branch, flowering plant, fern, vine, rock shelf, or manmade object such as a wire or nail) using strands of spider silk stolen from spider webs. The exterior is camouflaged with green mosses. Blue-throated Hummingbirds frequently nest over running water. The two white eggs hatch in 17 to 19 days, and the young leave the nest at 24 to 26 days of age. The male takes no part in nest building or care of the young. Up to three broods per year are possible under ideal conditions; the female usually builds each new nest atop the previous nest, leading to nest “towers” at traditional nest sites. Like other hummingbirds, the Blue-throated Hummingbird feeds on nectar from flowers and catches insects in flight and by gleaning from vegetation. In winter, sap from wells drilled by sapsuckers may substitute for nectar. Ref: Wiki Fatal error: Call to undefined function akst_share_form() in /home/bng/public_html/wp-content/themes/purplish/footer.php on line 2