Coronavirus updates: Shortage of supplies has slowed testing process SUBSCRIBE NOWAs low as 99¢ per week Home News Sports Autos Entertainment Restaurants Impact Investigations USA TODAY Mitch Albom Opinion Obituaries Business Life Jobs Cars Homes Public Notices Photo/video Archives Business Directory Give Feedback Corrections More Home News Sports Autos Entertainment Restaurants Impact Investigations USA TODAY Mitch Albom Opinion Obituaries Business Life Jobs Cars Homes Public Notices Photo/video Archives Business Directory Give Feedback Corrections search Subscribe salutation Manage Account Access e-Edition Newsletters Pay Bill Report Delivery Issues Pause Delivery Subscriber Guide Help Center Sign Out Have an existing account?Sign In Already have a subscription?Activate Your Account Don't have an account?Create One Get the news Share This Story! Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about FacebookEmailTwitterGoogle+LinkedInPinterest Coronavirus live updates, April 26: Shortage of supplies has slowed testing process Here's the latest news on the coronavirus pandemic and its impact on the Detroit area and around Michigan. Post to Facebook Coronavirus live updates, April 26: Shortage of supplies has slowed testing process Here's the latest news on the coronavirus pandemic and its impact on the Detroit area and around Michigan.  Check out this story on Freep.com: https://www.freep.com/story/news/local/michigan/2020/04/26/coronavirus-updates-michigan/3025377001/ CancelSend Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Join the Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Comments Welcome to our new and improved comments, which are for subscribers only. This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you. You do not need a Facebook profile to participate. You will need to register before adding a comment. Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in. Please be polite. It's OK to disagree with someone's ideas, but personal attacks, insults, threats, hate speech, advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban. If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines, please report them. Coronavirus live updates, April 26: Shortage of supplies has slowed testing process Amy Huschka, Detroit Free Press Published 12:22 p.m. ET April 26, 2020 CONNECTTWEETLINKEDINCOMMENTEMAILMORE Here's the latest news on the coronavirus pandemic and its impact on the Detroit area and around Michigan.  What you need to know Tracking the pandemic: Map, graphs of coronavirus cases in Michigan COVID-19: Symptoms to look for, how to get help Where to get free food in metro Detroit Coronavirus and mental health: How to cope during the crisis How to apply for unemployment if you get laid off How you can help others | Here's who is hiring COVID-19 contact tracing: How it works CORONAVIRUS WATCH: Stay informed on the latest COVID-19 updates, locally and nationally. Sign up for our newsletter here. More testing needed for Michigan to reopen and get back to work safely, experts say America slowed to a stop in the last two months as the novel coronavirus death toll topped 53,000 people this weekend and the infection rate climbed to nearly 1 million, sending the economy into a tailspin.  And now, even as COVID-19 continues to spread without a proven treatment and without a vaccine, the call to reopen the nation has come from businesses, from economists, from the president and from protesters who rallied at the state Capitol and last week in front of the governor's house. But when it will be safe to take bigger steps toward a life that more closely resembles our pre-COVID-19 existence, said Dr. Joneigh Khaldun, the chief medical executive for the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, will depend heavily on testing. Michigan needs more testing of more people, and those tests need to show that COVID-19's spread is abating, she said. Michigan also needs contact tracing so that when an outbreak is identified, the people who might have come into contact with those cases can be tested and isolated to slow the chance of further spread.  The state has begun to ramp up coronavirus testing to try to meet that goal, but a nationwide shortage of supplies such as swabs and reagents has slowed the process.  ► Read more Whitmer's turn in coronavirus spotlight brings national attention to Michigan It’s hard to turn on the TV these days without seeing Gov. Gretchen Whitmer. She has become ubiquitous on cable and network news shows from MSNBC to Fox News to Comedy Central. She’s on podcasts and tele-town halls, Zoom chats and conference calls with doctors, nurses, business leaders and constituents, and she has given news conference updates multiple times a week that are livestreamed across the airwaves. She has gone from Democratic governor trying to work with a mostly recalcitrant Republican Legislature that has blocked her from getting her signature campaign promise of “fixing the damn roads” done, to a thorn in Trump’s side, a target of conservative protests and a member of an exclusive club -— the short list for presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden’s running mate. ► Read more 'Saturday Night Live' online skit features Cecily Strong as Gov. Whitmer A skit about Gov. Gretchen Whitmer didn't make the aired version of NBC's "Saturday Night Live" this weekend. But "SNL" did share the segment online, giving a fake version of the state's in-the-news leader a chance to vent about her week. Standing outside near a woodsy backdrop, wearing a parka and holding a beer, Strong's Whitmer vented frustration at the recent protest in Lansing against her stay-home order. "Yeah, I'm nursing a Labatt's," said Strong's Whitmer. ► Read more Jen Laubach holding Mitchell and her husband Andrew Laubach holding Maksim inside the neo-natal intensive care unit inside Troy Beaumont Hospital in Troy, Michigan on Friday, April 24, 2020.  (Photo: Courtesy of Troy Beaumont) Mom with COVID-19 delivers twins as husband faced death: 'Let me live' The Laubachs are among 37,000 Michiganders who have been infected by the novel coronavirus that to date has afflicted more than 934,000 Americans and killed more than 53,000. More than 3,000 have died in our state.  Their story, though, is one of survival. Andre Laubach, a 36-year-old attorney, overcame the virus that took over his lungs and caused him to miss out on the birth of his twin sons, Mitchell and Maksim, who were born eight weeks early on April 3. Mitchell weighed 3 pounds, his brother 4. Neither baby has the virus. ► Read more Detroit music venues, facing an uncertain future, team up with new national coalition The venues have gone dark. The sound systems are silent. And it may be months — perhaps even a year or more — before live music is up and running again in metro Detroit. Six weeks after the communal escape of concertgoing was snatched away by the gritty reality of the coronavirus pandemic, independent event promoters in Michigan and across the United States have teamed up in search of a lifeline. More than 20 small- and mid-sized Michigan music venues have joined the hastily formed National Independent Venue Association, a group of more than 900 promoters and facilities seeking targeted federal attention and emergency relief. At the bar, club and theater level of the live-music industry, margins are tight and financial stability is tough even in the best of times. Now folks in the business are gazing into a murky future that's more perilous than ever. ► Read more The COVID-19 crisis has humbled renowned local painter Tony Roko In popular culture, artists are often depicted as solitary creatures who create their most important works during lonely stretches of darkness, away from the distractions of other people and the social graces they require. And while the act of creating is mostly performed in solitude for Plymouth-based painter Tony Roko, the COVID-19 crisis has also emphasized just how much his work relies on connecting with people in person. At this stage in his career, Roko rarely puts on shows. Much of the work comes from commissions, and whatever doesn’t, typically gets bought up quickly. He said his collectors are still buying the work, but with his Plymouth studio closed for the time being, he’s taken what he estimates to be a 50% hit to his income so far. But Roko cautions that it’s early yet, and the long-term impact on artists like him is difficult to predict. ► Read more Unable to photograph people during the COVID-19 pandemic, Detroit portrait photographer Noah Stephens has turned to conceptual self-portraiture. "The Creation of Corona," seen here, co-opts Michelangelo's "Creation of Adam" to critique post-coronavirus religiosity.  (Photo: Noah Stephens ) Detroit portrait photographer Noah Stephens reframes for an era of social distancing Anyone who follows Noah Stephens on Facebook is familiar with the Detroit-based photographer's at times combative but always thoughtful no-nonsense approach to just about everything.  The Highland Park native launched the portraiture photo project The People of Detroit. Intentionally conceived to counter the dominant ruin-porn narrative Detroit was frequently typecast in at the time, it instead focused on the humans who inhabited the city. His portraiture and commercial headshot work has dried up since the novel coronavirus hit Michigan. Stephens remains stoic in the face of the pandemic though, despite the lack of recent income. A decade of freelancer feast or famine cycles have prepared him for this moment. ► Read more FacebookTwitterGoogle+LinkedIn Michigan reacts as coronavirus hits the state  Fullscreen Post to Facebook Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Dr. Nik Hemady, of Honor Community Health, swabs a patient's throat at the Oakland County Health Division's drive-thru COVID-19 testing site at the Oakland County complex in Pontiac, Mich. on April 16, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Swabs are labeled and stored for testing at Honor Community Health in partnership with Oakland County Health Division's first drive-thru COVID-19 testing site for first responders, essential or critical infrastructure employees, adults age 65 or older, those with underlying conditions and residents of Pontiac at the Oakland County complex in Pontiac, Mich. on April 16, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Shawn Beitler of Wyandotte visits her son Landon Beitler. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Protesters block traffic while others stood on the steps around the Michigan State Capitol building in Lansing on April 15, 2020, to send a message to Gov. Whitmer that the extension of the Stay at Home mandate, in an attempt to lower the coronavirus infection rate, had gone too far. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Protesters block traffic while others stood on the steps around the Michigan State Capitol building in Lansing on April 15, 2020, to send a message to Gov. Whitmer that the extension of the Stay at Home mandate, in an attempt to lower the coronavirus infection rate, had gone too far. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Protesters block traffic around the Michigan State Capitol building in Lansing on April 15, 2020, to send a message to Gov. Whitmer that the extension of the Stay at Home mandate, in an attempt to lower the coronavirus infection rate, had gone too far. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Protesters block traffic around the Michigan State Capitol building in Lansing on April 15, 2020, to send a message to Gov. Whitmer that the extension of the Stay at Home mandate, in an attempt to lower the coronavirus infection rate, had gone too far. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Registered Nurse Tammy Lambert along with healthcare workers and supporters protest outside of Rogel Cancer Center in Ann Arbor, Wednesday, April 15, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen U-M healthcare workers and supporters protest outside of Rogel Cancer Center in Ann Arbor demanding "PPE over Profit", Wednesday, April 15, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Jessie Grant, 67, of Detroit and store cook puts a southern flair on her dishes that include baked chicken, perch and catfish, homemade mac and cheese, collard greens and Oxtail soup. Small independent markets like Lafayette Foods in Detroit, photographed on April 14, 2020, is the lifeblood of local communities. Lafayette Foods prides itself on full healthy groceries and produce, meats and take out hot food. The market is taking all precautions during the Coronavirus pandemic. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen The electronic sign outside of the TCF Center in Detroit cautions "Stay Home Stay Safe" as entrances to the center are closed off Tuesday, April, 14, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Medical professionals walk to a vehicle to check the blood pressure of a patient at the COVID-19 Emergency Center Curbside Screening for Covid-19 at Beaumont Hospital in Farmington Hills, Mich., photographed on Tuesday, March 24, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Andrew Dolenga, 22, of Rochester is a senior at Michigan State University where he is getting a degree in Mechanical engineering. Dolenga, holds his dog, Tucker, at his parent's home in Rochester on April 8, 2020. He is now taking his classes online but is still forced to pay his rent for his off-campus apartment four months in advance even though he longer resides there. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Halima Cassells, of Detroit, right, gardens in her backyard with her family Mia-Rah, 8, Bryce Detroit, and Nzinga 2, in the backyard of her family home on Wednesday, March 25, 2020. Cassells and her partner Bryce are community-engaged artists and Bryce says "It's interesting to do work that serves humanity and at the same time being asked to distance ourselves from humanity." Cassells says the novel Coronavirus is causing people to step up their humanity making the government do the right thing, like turning people's water back on, so residents can follow CDC guidelines to stay safe. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Rev WJ Rideout and his wife Candice Rideout make Easter baskets to pass out after services at All God's People church Saturday, April 11, 2020 in Roseville. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Bianca Cuevas-Morones, 32, stands at the door with her son Romeo Morones, 1, daughter Carmen, 3, husband Horacio Morones, 42, and one-month newborn Paolo at their home in southwest Detroit, photographed on Tuesday, March 31, 2020. Bianca says she has anxiety, a symptom of her postpartum depression, that is exacerbated with the lockdown due to the novel Coronavirus. "My kids are keeping me going," Bianca says,"keeping the same routine going. Working with the non-profit Living Arts, keeps her mind busy at night too. Paolo has his six-week check up coming soon and Bianca hopes she will be able to go. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Romana Chowdhury, 31, of Detroit says she realized how bad the pandemic Covid-19 was when she was sent as an interpreter to Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak to help a Bengali cancer patient and saw five patients admitted for the new coronavirus within an hour in early March. "It's actually a dangerous pandemic right now,"says Chowdhury who is a member of the Bangladeshi community, "I have kids, I don't wan to die."Chowdhury stands with her mother, (red scarf) Doulana Begum, 54 and her son Zubair Aldeen, 9, at their home on Friday, April 3, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Sarah Hulett, 45, is an editor at Michigan Radio and says that it is nonstop from 7 a.m. and takes time at 4 pm everyday to go on a walk with her two daughters, Evelyn, 10, and Jane, 8, who attend the James and Grace Lee Boggs school. With the demands of her job and her husband Brian Wybenga, 53, occupied with his responsibilities as Lead Photography at Ford Motor Company, Hulett says they "let the kids fend for themselves," but have discovered they work well together in the kitchen cooking crepes, a recipe they learned on YouTube. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Margaret Carter enjoys getting a visit by Thunder, an alpaca at her window at Cedar Woods Assisted Living in Belleville, Michigan on April 11, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen From left, siblings Carolyn Johnson, 51, of Eastpointe, Korey Hill, 46, of Detroit and Eric Burse, 53 of Detroit, with a portrait of their mother, Mildred Hill, who died April 7, 2020, after being diagnosed with COVID-19. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Some of the homeless looking for breakfast at the Pope Francis Center on Larned Street in Detroit, Michigan on April 9, 2020, practiced social distancing while standing in line. Often when they got too close to either other someone from the center on a bullhorn would remind them to keep a distance from each other. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A member of the media shoots video with her iPhone of the wide-open area of Hall C filled with 600 individual rooms inside the TCF Center in Detroit, Michigan on April 1, 2020. This area along with Hall E downstairs is where patients with Coronavirus COVID-19 in Metro Detroit will be housed and treated. Members of the Michigan National Guard and the Army Corps of Engineers worked at erecting the rooms and beds for the patients. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen State Rep. Robert Wittenberg of Huntington Woods and his wife Kimberly and their children Ada and newborn Abel talk with Robert's mother Mollie Wittenberg of Huntington Woods in their front window on April 3, 2020. Wittenberg hasn't been able to hold her grandchild yet due to concerns with the Coronavirus. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Social distancing the new norm as few journalists wait for Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan to hold a press conference in shed 5 at Eastern Market on April 7, 2020, to update the citizens of Metro Detroit on the state of the impact of COVID-19. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen David Boiling of Detroit waves to Ignacio Moreno Elst and his wife Kaytea Moreno Elst as their children Oskar Tyce Moreno Elst and Nilah Moreno Elst move from his porch after collecting treats while looking for Easter eggs on a hunt through Pingree Park neighborhood in Detroit's east side on April 10, 2020. Neighbors from about 40 houses made giant eggs of paper and hung them in windows of their houses for children of the neighborhood to walk the sidewalk or ride a bike and see if they can hunt for the houses with an egg while keeping tally. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Sister of the late Eric Dubke, Michelle Voineag, blow her mother Mary Dubke a kiss through a window on April 10, 2020, at her group home in Northville. Their mother suffers from late-stage Alzheimers and Voineag agonized over whether to tell her she has lost her son to COVID-19. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Pastor Solomon Kinloch held a drive-in service for his congregation at the Triumph Church North Campus due to COVID-19 on April 5, 2020, in Detroit. MJ Before and Rochelle Robinson were among the 200-300 watching Kinloch on a big screen located in the church parking lot. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Jake Williams, the program manager for Gleaners Community Food Bank adds a variety of food into the back of a minivan during the food drive they did with Matrix Human Services at Matrix's facility in Detroit, Michigan on April 3, 2020, during their bi-weekly food distribution to families in need. Long lines had formed when the distribution opened at 2 pm for the three-hour food giveaway. Some of the items given away were milk, peanut butter, canned goods, rice and a variety of fruits and vegetables. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Michigan Democratic Senator Dayna Polehanki stands in attendance during a congressional session that voted to extend the Michigan declaration of emergency until April 30th, at the Michigan State Capitol in Lansing, Mich. on April 7, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen The Army Corps of Engineers is setting up the Suburban Showplace in Novi to treat COVID-19 patients Saturday, April 11, 2020, in Novi. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Blessing Boxes creators Shardia Simpson and her husband Desmetrice Ward place one of their boxes on the corner of Seven Mile and Evergreen. Branden Hunter, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Irwin Danto stands inside of his furniture business in Detroit on April 9, 2020, during the Novel Coronavirus outbreak. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Natasha Dykes a Detroit owner of iBody and Darylynn Mumphord make Easter Baskets Friday, April 10, 2020 in Detroit. More than 500 baskets will be made up for kids and handed out on Easter. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Saran Walker protests along with the SEIU Michigan Healthcare union for working conditions at the Ambassador nursing home on April 9, 2020, in Detroit. Workers at the home were just recently given the necessary PPE needed to treat patients. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Workers watch as Rev W.J. Rideout and the SEIU Michigan Healthcare union protest working conditions at the Ambassador nursing home on April 9, 2020, in Detroit. Workers at the home were just recently given the necessary PPE needed to treat patients. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen As people waited in line for something to eat and drink (L to R) John Fitzgerald, 23 of St. Louis, Missouri handed off coffee for Harrison Plaskey, 27 of Detroit and the program director to give away at the Pope Francis Center on Larned Street in Detroit, Michigan on April 9, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Grocery stores like Kroger and Busch's are trying to convince shoppers to keep their distance to keep everyone safe. Johnny Ali, restaurant supervisor at Busch's Fresh Food Market in Canton stocks the frozen goods section, Friday, April 3, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Christopher Leon, 29 of Detroit comes out of the shower unit after he spends time disinfecting it after someone had just finished using it. The portable shower unit was brought in for the homeless to use on April 9, 2020, at the Pope Francis Center on Larned Street in Detroit, Michigan. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Downriver Urgent Care Lori Khaled a registered nurse stands by for a consult as her husband Dr. Mounir Khaled fields a phone call on April 9, 2020, in Grosse Ile. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Leondre Leonard, 33, of Warren is greeted by a GameStop employee in Hamtramck to pick up a PS4 PlayStation he ordered online. Leonard, who said he was really bored, mentioned this was the only time he has gone out. GameStop is open in spite of a stay at home mandate due to the spread of the Novel Corona Virus. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Judy Armbruster of Grosse Pointe Woods, right, talks to her mother Mary Lou Wholihan by the windows outside of Sunrise Senior Living in Grosse Pointe Woods, Friday, March 27, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Eric Dubke died on March 16. Eight days later his family learned he was positive with COVID-19. His daughter Erica Dubke, left, sits with her mother Julie Dubke, who hugs her tight, on their front porch in Gibraltar on April 8, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Rep. Brandt Iden, R-Oshtemo Twp, has his temperature taken and screened for other symptoms of the COVID-19 virus by Pharmacist Alex Mchawrab before entering the capital, during a congressional session to vote that extended the Michigan declaration of emergency until April 30th, at the Michigan State Capitol in Lansing, Mich. on Tuesday, April 7, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen James LoTempio, 51, of Delta Twp is a member of the Michigan United for Liberty Facebook page that organized to protest in front of the Michigan State Capitol in Lansing, Mich. during a congressional session to vote to extend the Michigan declaration of emergency until April 30th on Tuesday, April 7, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Andy Campbell, owner of Tip Toe Shoe Repair in downtown Detroit pets his cat Jenny, the store mascot, as he drops by his business to feed her April 3, 2020. Campbell says his customers really like the cat and he hopes to be open again soon. Kelly Jordan, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen The National Guard along with local contractors sets up hospital facilities in the TCF Center to treat COVID-19 patients Monday, April 6, 2020 in Detroit. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A room set up by the National Guard along with local contractors in the TCF Center to treat COVID-19 patients Monday, April 6, 2020 in Detroit. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen The Spirit of Detroit statue now dons a makeshift mask Monday, April, 6, 2020, as Metro Dertroiters hunker down during a stay at home mandate due to the Novel Coronavirus. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen All God's People Church Apostle W.J. Rideout conducted a drive in service for his members to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus Sunday, March 28, 2020 in Roseville. Church members stayed in their cars as Rideout gave his sermon in front of about 12 cars. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Pastor Solomon Kinloch held a drive in service for his congregation at the Triumph Church North Campus due to COVID-19 Sunday, April 5, 2020 in Detroit. About 200-300 people took part watching Kinloch on a big screen located in the church parking lot. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Members of the Michigan National Guard spent part of Saturday, April 4, 2020, rolling beds into individual rooms set up for Coronavirus patients that will be moved into the alternate care facility inside Hall C of the TCF Center in Detroit, Michigan on April 8th, The Army Corps of Engineers spent the past week building and setting up 1,000 rooms at the convention center to take overflow patients with Coronavirus COVID-19. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Melody Robbins, 6, looks through the glass of their storm door at the home she shares with her family in Ferndale April 3, 2020. The family has a brightly decorated front door as they participated in the Rainbows over Michigan, a viral Facebook movement. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen People lineup for food and other items at Maiden House Ministries in Highland Park on April 3, 2020. People were keeping their distance as a part of social distancing guidelines as they waited in line to receive food and other items available from the weekly event. Kelly Jordan and Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Kyle Shammami and his father Mark bag groceries for a customer at the Penny Lake Market in Walled Lake, Wednesday, March 25, 2020. Junfu Han/Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Though the Detroit Tigers Opening day was canceled, Hunter Chamberlain and Mark Wolford decided to make the best of not going to the game. Mandi Wright Fullscreen The marquee at TCF Center reads "We got this Detroit," as cars pass on Jefferson in downtown Detroit on Friday, March 20, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Royal Oak William Beaumont Dr. Robbins makes his way to work during a near capacity at his hospital due to the Coronavirus Wednesday, March 25, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Janee Steele of Detroit and Antuan Dozier of Detroit wait for their order to be filled at Nature's Products on Detroit's east side on Friday, March 20, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Rev. Kenneth Flowers pastor of Greater New Moriah Baptist Church Sunday, March 22, 2020. Rev. Flowers is live-streaming his services due to COVID-19. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to COVID-19 Maria Ramirez picked up food from the Gleaners food bank drive-thru in Detroit set up Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Anna Patterson and her daughter Isabella, 10, pose for a photo in front of their home in Clinton Township, Friday, March 27, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Pat Tucker shows one of the protective face shields she assembled at Troy Manufacturing Design a Ford subsidiary in Plymouth on Friday, March 27, 2020. Ford, in cooperation with the UAW, will assemble more than 100,000 critically needed plastic face shields per week to help medical professionals, factory workers and store clerks. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen People work on assembling protective face shields at Troy Manufacturing Design a Ford subsidiary in Plymouth on Friday, March 27, 2020. Ford, in cooperation with the UAW, will assemble more than 100,000 critically needed plastic face shields per week to help medical professionals, factory workers and store clerks. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Nature's Products owner Gary Wanttaja (left) fills an herb order while looking back as Janee Steele of Detroit and Antuan Dozier of Detroit talk about what they should buy as Taisa Watson of Detroit walks in the store wearing a face mask and gloves on Friday, March 20, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Irina Tikhonova plays the cello on her front porch in Royal Oak for neighbors as her husband, Fred Trimble, holds their 4-year-old granddaughter, Mia, on Thursday, March 26, 2020. Tikhonova, who has been playing the cello for more than four decades, has played with local symphony orchestras. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Dillon Person of Flint wears a medical mask while playing basketball with friends at Memorial Park in Flint on March 19, 2020. Person said he also carries hand sanitizer to help prevent catching COVID-19. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Liv Khoury of Royal Oak fixes her mother Megan Khoury's hair while stopping to listen as Irina Tikhonova plays the cello on her front porch in Royal Oak for the community on Thursday, March 26, 2020. Before the coronavirus pandemic prompted concert cancellations, Tikhonova, who has been playing the cello for more than four decades, played the with local symphony orchestras. Now, she is giving 30-minute porch performances in her Royal Oak neighborhood weather permitting. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Medical staff talks with people in their cars that have driven to the Beaumont Health curbside screening for COVID-19 at Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak on March 16, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A heart shaped sign sits on the outside of American Coney Island in downtown Detroit on March 24, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Businesses along S. Main St. in Frankenmuth remain closed on March 25, 2020, due to the stay-at-home order to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Ann Curtis gets an order for Steve Jennings of Frankenmuth as she helps hand out cuts of 220 thread count cotton fabric for free to be used to make face masks at Frankenmuth Woolen Mill on Wednesday, March 25, 2020 as part of Operation Make Masks @ Home to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Jenning's wife is part of a group that has already made 500 masks to distribute to local responders in need and plans on making another 500. The business, that is closed due to the stay-at-home order, started a Facebook campaign to help supply the cut fabric for people to pick up as a curbside service while leaving some out on a table for anyone that stopped by needing help with the fabric shortage. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Becky Kreager, center, her husband Doug, granddaughter Kamdem Villemeure, 1, center left, talk to their neighbors the Runkel family in Milan on March 24, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Kirk Myers, 32, of Detroit prepares to leaflet a house on Seminole on Detroit's Eastside with a recorded water shutoff. The Detroit Water and Sewage Department is restoring any such shutoffs on March 25, 2020, due to the Novel Coronavirus outbreak. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Leonard Edwards, 70, of Flint sits on the front porch near his father Will Edwards, 97, at his dad's home in Flint's north side on March 20, 2020. Leonard, who recently had vertebrae surgery and has a cough, doesn't go into his father's home to avoid him catching anything from him due to his age. His father has a bad knee and an irregular heartbeat."It's one thing after another," Leonard said about having recently dealt with the Flint Water Crisis to now worrying about COVID-19. "I got to keep him on bottled water. I don't trust the water. I didn't trust it and I ain't going to trust it. I can't wait in line for hours to get it. By the time I get up there they're out," he said, about going to water distribution sites for his father to avoid going around town looking water that might be low in stock at stores. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Anthony Brunt, his mother, Traci Haynes, step-father Chris Haynes step and brother Dylan Gehringer, 16, pose for a photo in front of their home in Milan on March 24, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Workers from the Moose Preserve in Bloomfield Township and Sysco, a food distribution company help hand out boxes of food to hospitality workers in a parking lot on Woodward Avenue and Square Lake Road on March 20, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Joe DeFever, 27 and Meghan Behen, both from Rochester Hills and workers for Sysco start to load up a hospitality worker's car with boxes of food during a food distribution event for hospitality workers who are out of jobs because of the Coronavirus on March 20, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen People relax on a park bench looking out over Pontiac Lake at the Pontiac Lake State Recreation Area in Waterford, Michigan on March 24, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen With the stay at home order in place, the Department of Natural Resources put up signs closing down slides and swing sets because they could not be adequately disinfected at the Pontiac Lake State Recreation Area in Waterford, Michigan on March 24, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen An electronic billboard with a Stay Home. Stay Safe. Save Lives message appears as drivers head South on the Lodge Freeway near Wyoming in Detroit, Michigan on March 24, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen City of Ferndale employees erect fencing around playground equipment at Garbutt Park in Ferndale, Michigan on Saturday, March 21, 2020 after Oakland County restricted access to playground equipment and closed shopping malls to try and stop the spread of coronavirus. Brian Kaufman, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen City of Ferndale employee Rob McKinnon, 37, of Ferndale, Michigan erects fencing around the Geary Park skatepark in Ferndale, Michigan on Saturday, March 21 after Oakland County restricted access to playground equipment and closed shopping malls to try and stop the spread of coronavirus. Brian Kaufman, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen City of Ferndale employee Caleb Clemons, 38, of Ferndale, Michigan erects barriers around a swing set at Garbutt Park on Saturday, March 21 after Oakland County restricted access to playground equipment and closed shopping malls to try and stop the spread of coronavirus. Brian Kaufman, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Oakland County Executive David Coulter gives an update on COVID-19 cases and response, March 21, 2020 at the L. Brooks Patterson Building Conference Center in Waterford. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Oakland County Executive David Coulter gives an update on COVID-19 cases and response, March 21, 2020 at the L. Brooks Patterson Building Conference Center in Waterford. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Emagine Theatres of Novi was selling 10-gallon bags of popcorn on Saturday afternoon March 21, 2020. Nine of the Emagine Theatre lobbies in Metro Detroit are open on Friday, Saturday and Wednesday's for the foreseeable future during the COVID-19 pandemic from noon to 7 pm selling freshly popped 10-gallon bags of popcorn for $15 each. People who buy a $25 Emagine gift card will receive one 10-gallon bag for free. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Emagine Theatres of Novi manager Robert Gerhardt puts a twisty on one 10-gallon bag on Saturday afternoon March 21, 2020. Nine of the Emagine Theatre lobbies in Metro Detroit are open on Friday, Saturday and Wednesday's for the foreseeable future during the COVID-19 pandemic from noon to 7 pm selling freshly popped 10-gallon bags of popcorn for $15 each. People who buy a $25 Emagine gift card will receive one 10-gallon bag for free. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Oakland County L. Brooks Patterson Building Conference Center, 2100 Pontiac Lake Road in Waterford. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen David L. Mackenzie Elementary-Middle school food services employees Cora Johnson, left, and Roderick Bailey, help prepare breakfasts and lunches for Detroit Public Schools has set up a Grab and Go curbside pickup system for families needing educational supplies and food Wednesday, March, 18, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen In a message to the city, the Fillmore marquee reads: "We Love you Detroit. Be back soon." Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen In unprecedented times due to the COVID-19 threat, Red Cross mobile unit assistant Kevin Sirmans takes the temperature of Jennifer Everland of Royal Oak before she enters to give blood Thursday, March, 19, 2020 at the Pleasant Ridge Community Center in Pleasant Ridge. Everland, with universal blood type O negative, was answering a severe shortage alert she received from the Red Cross. She had to reschedule due to low iron but is determined to help out during the crisis. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Greektown normally a popular hang out in Detroit stands empty due to the coronavirus pandemic Thursday, March 19, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Volunteer Bob Buckley of Berkley sings a prayer before dinner with guests at Greenfield Presbyterian Church in Berkley, Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Volunteers Melanie Barash of Sterling Heights and her son Evan, 18, serve dinner to guests at Greenfield Presbyterian Church in Berkley, Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Michigan Theater on Liberty Street near University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Beaumont Health's medical director of Infection Prevention and Epidemiology Dr. Nick Gilpin gives an update on coronavirus next to Chief Nursing Officer Susan Grant at the Beaumont Service Center in Southfield, Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Paula Lightsey, a supervisor with Southfield Public Schools, adds more Chromebooks to a stack to be given out at Birney Middle School in Southfield, Michigan on Wednesday, March 18, 2020. The school district were letting parents checkout the laptops for their kids to use on online learning while they stay at during the Coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A nearly empty Geary Park in Ferndale on Thursday, March 19, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen George Johnson, of Thad Szott Auto Group, right, hands over paperwork for the recently purchased 2020 Chrysler Pacifica to Adam Blanton, a registered nurse with Henry Ford Hospital, after delivering it to him at his home in Grosse Ile, Mich. on Thursday, March 19, 2020. Blanton and his wife are expecting their fourth child in May and needed a new vehicle for the whole family. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Detroit Public Schools program supervisor for mentoring Brett Jordan hand delivers school supplies and a bag of breakfasts and lunches to Donecia Ruff who has an 8th grader a 9th grader and an 11th grader in DPD schools and two toddlers to support. The meals were prepared at David L. Mackenzie Elementary-Middle school Wednesday, March, 18, 2020. DPD has set up a Grab and Go curbside pickup system for families needing educational supplies and food due to the COVID-19 threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen People walk by or through the Rosa Parks Transit Center on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Detroit Department of Transportation buses didn't run any of their routes today as many drivers called off because of the Coronavirus COVID-19. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A sign hangs in the window alerting customers at Star of India in Ferndale about take out only orders as the foot traffic on 9 Mile is sparse Tuesday, March, 17, 2020 amidst Coronavirus threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Clark Drobek, 62 of Warren and Moroj Altaweel, 33 of West Bloomfield talk as Drobek prepares to process swabs taken from patients to test for Coronavirus COVID-19 at the pathology and laboratory medicine labs at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A man unknowingly attempted to board his SMART bus at 9 Mile and Woodward in Ferndale from the front Tuesday, March, 17, 2020. Passengers have been requested to enter from the back of the busses due to Coronavirus threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Beaumont Health's medical director of Infection Prevention and Epidemiology Dr. Nick Gilpin gives an update on coronavirus next to Chief Nursing Officer Susan Grant at the Beaumont Service Center in Southfield, Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Center Mass sales manner Justin Udvardy hands a newly purchased AR-15 to Karen Gossett of Plymouth Township in Livonia, Thursday, March 19, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Nia Winston, the General Vice President of Unite Here, speaks during a press conference held by Detroit Casino Union Council members (UniteHERE Local 24, Teamsters, Operating Engineers, and the UAW) to demand MGM Grand Casino and Hotel pay their workers during the time the casino is closed, as ordered by Governor Gretchen Whitmer, on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen From left, U-M graduating seniors Grace Scarfone, Natalia Engel, Rita Sidhu, Hannah Saunders, Grace Drettmann and Brian Galvin pop bottles of sparkling wine for their graduation photos outside of the Michigan Stadium in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Diane Strauss, 55, of Warren chooses some red potatoes for an online client as she fills grocery orders at Holiday Market in Royal Oak Tuesday, March, 17, 2020. Online grocery orders at the store have seen an uptick since the Coronavirus threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Aaron Marshall, who works as a student support network specialist at Southfield Public Schools, hands off a Chromebook to Eugene Martin of Southfield who has an eighth grader in the school district. Marshall and others were at Birney Middle School in Southfield, Michigan on Wednesday, March 18, 2020 letting parents checkout the laptops for their kids to use on online learning while they stay at during the Coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen The streets of downtown Detroit were quiet on Monday morning, March 16, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Trucks carrying cargo cross over the Ambassador Bridge on the United States side on Wednesday, March 18, 2020. The United States and Canada announced a temporary closure of the shared boarder due to the Coronavirus outbreak. Non-Essential vehicles won't be allowed to cross but cargo and transportation trucks will still be able to move freely between the two countries. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Clark Drobek, 62 of Warren processes patient swabs to test for the Coronavirus COVID-19 at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, Michigan on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Diane Strauss, 55, of Warren fills online grocery orders at Holiday Market in Royal Oak Tuesday, March, 17, 2020. Online grocery orders at the store have seen an uptick since the Coronavirus threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Justin Thompson of Detroit picks up his tofu sandwich at Ima, a noodle shop in Midtown Detroit that is open now only for takeout Monday, March, 16, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Medical staff talks with people in their cars that have driven to the Beaumont Health curbside screening for COVID-19 at Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak on Monday, March 16, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Pastry chef Kristina Conger puts containers filled with marinated peppers out on tables as Mabel Gray of Hazel Park owner James Rigato purges his inventory and sets up a makeshift pantry Monday, March, 16, 2020 to donate goods to his 18 employee staff that will not be able to work during the closing of restaurants during the Coronavirus threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen From left, graduating seniors Alex Andrews, Jenna Varcak and Haley Jamieson get their graduation photos taken by their photographer Hannah Brauer in front of Law Library on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Sous chef Sam Stanisz, left, helps Mabel Gray of Hazel Park owner James Rigato purges his inventory and set up a makeshift pantry Monday, March, 16, 2020 to donate goods to their 18 employee staff that will not be able to work during the closing of restaurants during the Coronavirus threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Mabel Gray of Hazel Park manager and sommelier Paulina Schemanski, left, works the phone and computer as owner James Rigato purges his pantry Monday, March, 16, 2020 to donate goods to his 18 employee staff that will not be able to work during the closing of restaurants during the Coronavirus threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen L. George's Family Restaurant in Farmington Hills closed to all but take-out customers Monday, March 16, 2020 Kathleen Gray, Kathleen Gray Fullscreen A journalist smears copious amounts of hand sanitizer on before Oakland County Executive David Coulter and Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel hold a press conference at M-Brew in Ferndale Monday, March, 16, 2020 to clarify new rules put forth to protect the community from the spread of Coronavirus. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Jessica Hamilton PA, Chief in ER for Beaumont Hospital stands by as Amena Beslic, RN Director at the Emergency Center shows BD universal viral transport solution used to keep virus alive after a swab is used in the nose to test for COVID-19 at Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak on Monday, March 16, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel holds a press conference at M-Brew in Ferndale Monday, March, 16, 2020 to clarify new rules put forth to protect the community from the spread of Coronavirus. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Medical staff do curbside screening for COVID-19 as people drive up for testing at Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. Ryan Garza Fullscreen A sign language interpreter, left, makes the sign for dead as Oakland County Executive David Coulter explains that is what they are trying to avoid as he and Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel hold a press conference at M-Brew in Ferndale Monday, March, 16, 2020 to clarify new rules put forth to protect the community from the spread of Coronavirus. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Pencils to be used for students checking out Chromebooks for at home work lay on a table at Roosevelt Elementary School in Keego Harbor as the school remains closed due to COVID-19 pandemic on Monday, June 16, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen April Page, 39, from Roseville, MI and Dormon Page, 42, also from Roseville, MI embrace shortly after getting married in Ferndale, MI on Monday, March 16, 2020. The couple had planned to get married in Las Vegas, but had to cancel their plans due to the coronavirus. Brian Kaufman, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic the Greektown Casino is blocking off areas making sure no more than 250 people can gather in one space Sunday, March 15, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic the Greektown Casino is making sure the equipment is cleaned on a regular basis Herbert Allen wipes down one of the slot machines Sunday, March 15, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Mudgie's Deli owner Greg Mudge disinfects the bar of his Corktown restaurant on Sunday, March 15, 2020, hours before closing the restaurant until further notice of novel coronavirus concerns. Mark Kurlyandchik, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic Archbishop Vigneron's service was live-streamed to the parishioners of Blessed Sacrament church in Detroit Sunday, March 15, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Chromebook laptops are lined up for students in West Bloomfield School District to pick up to do their work from home at Roosevelt Elementary School in Keego Harbor as the school remains closed due to COVID-19 pandemic on Monday, June 16, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Adam Blanton places temporary license plate in the window his new 2020 Chrysler Pacifica that was delivered to his home in Grosse Ile, Mich. after purchasing it from Thad Szott Auto Group on Thursday, March 19, 2020. Blanton, a registered nurse, and his wife are expecting their fourth child in May and needed a new vehicle for the whole family. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Shoppers walk past empty shelves at a Trader Joe's in Ann Arbor on Friday, March 13, 2020. Shoppers across Michigan are stocking their pantries with essentials like bread, meat, eggs, and canned goods in anticipation of a coronavirus outbreak in the area. Melanie Maxwell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Morganne Hill, 9, works on her homework as her mother Donyetta Hill, brother Raynard Hill, 14 months watches at home in Detroit, Friday, March 13, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Shoppers pick up cases of bottled water at Kroger in Grosse Pointe, Friday afternoon, March 13, 2020. People across Michigan are stocking their pantries with essentials like bread, meat, eggs, and canned goods in anticipation of a coronavirus outbreak in the area. Brian Widdis, Brian Widdis/Special to the Free Press Fullscreen Hodari Brown, 35, of Redford suffers from PTSD, anxiety and depression as a military veteran who served in 2011-2012 and is photographed in his prayer room where he prays on the Mecca prayer rug that his father gave him at his home on March 14, 2020. The coronavirus outbreak has at times exacerbated the symptoms of his mental illness, but he tries to stay positive in light of so much uncertainty by staying active in his Christian faith by still attending service at Triumph Church DWO campus where he is a minister and leading a peer support group through the National Alliance on Mental Illness Metro. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Terrance Royal, night supervisor for RNA Facilities Management, the company that contracts with M1 Rail disinfects the door handle on a QLine train at Penske Tech Center in Detroit, Wednesday, March 11, 2020. Mohammad Hamad of account manager said the company has increased the frequency of cleaning and disinfecting the touch points on the trains. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic Archbishop Vigneron's service was live-streamed to the parishioners of Blessed Sacrament church in Detroit Sunday, March 15, 2020. Jorge Carreon of Detroit and his son Jorge Carreon Jr. 11 were the only two sitting in the chapel during the Archbishop's service. After the service they both talked with Seminary student Richard Dorsch who did an elbow bump with Jorge Jr. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Empty shelves in the bread aisle wait to be restocked at Kroger in Grosse Pointe, Friday afternoon, March 13, 2020. Shoppers across Michigan are stocking their pantries with essentials like bread, meat, eggs, and canned goods in anticipation of a coronavirus outbreak in the area. Brian Widdis, Brian Widdis/Special to the Free Press Fullscreen Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries resident specialist Bobbie James lets a man out while wearing a mask and gloves as he mans the entrance to the shelter in Detroit on Thursday, March 12, 2020 as people come in after being checked at the metal detectors. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Patricia York works on an arrangement for a customer at Jim's Florist in Warren on Friday, March 13, 2020. The business has lost some revenue due to events being cancelled because of the Corona Virus concerns. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic Archbishop Vigneron's service was live-streamed to the parishioners of Blessed Sacrament church in Detroit Sunday, March 15, 2020. Rick Giffin prepares to monitor the live-stream in a crawl space under the church. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Pink signs warning customers not to touch any product on vendor tables are seen at Eastern Market in Detroit, Saturday, March 14, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic Archbishop Vigneron's service was live-streamed to the parishioners of Blessed Sacrament church in Detroit Sunday, March 15, 2020. Jorge Carreon of Detroit and his son Jorge Carreon Jr. 11 were the only two sitting in the chapel during the Archbishop's service. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A hand wash station is seen near an exit at Eastern Market in Detroit, Saturday, March 14, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Shoppers pick up produce items among the empty bins at Kroger in Grosse Pointe, Friday afternoon, March 13, 2020. People across Michigan are stocking their pantries with essentials like bread, meat, eggs, and canned goods in anticipation of a coronavirus outbreak in the area. Brian Widdis, Brian Widdis/Special to the Free Press Fullscreen Kroger in Grosse Pointe is limiting customers to 3 each of high-demand items like bath tissue, hand sanitizer, and some medications Friday afternoon, March 13, 2020. Shoppers across Michigan are also stocking their pantries with essentials like bread, meat, eggs, and canned goods in anticipation of a coronavirus outbreak in the area. Brian Widdis, Brian Widdis/Special to the Free Press Fullscreen Demario Hill, 17, watches his brother Raynard Hill, 14 months, as their mother Donyetta Hill (not in the photo) prepares snacks for them at home in Detroit, Friday, March 13, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen People grab supplies while shopping at Costco in Auburn Hills on Wednesday, March 11, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Cars drove up to a tent set up outside the McLaren hospital emergency in Macomb where RN Mike M. tested them for the COVID-19 Saturday, March 14, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Cars drove up to a tent set up outside the McLaren hospital emergency in Macomb where RN Mike M. tested them for the COVID-19 Saturday, March 14, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Cars drove up to a tent set up outside the McLaren hospital emergency in Macomb to be tested for the COVID-19 Saturday, March 14, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic Archbishop Vigneron's service was live-streamed to the parishioners of Blessed Sacrament church in Detroit Sunday, March 15, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Joel Visnyak of Visnyak Farms bags ginger for a customer at Eastern Market in Detroit, Saturday, March 14, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen From left, West Bloomfield High School's senior Joy Spears, Riley Walter and Audrey Rao comfort each other after the color guards and percussion perform for their family and friend at the school gym in West Bloomfield Township, Thursday, March 12, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Oakland County Executive Dave Coulter speaks during a press conference at the L. Brooks Patterson Executive Office Building Conference Center in Waterford on Friday, March 13, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Kroger in Grosse Pointe is limiting customers to 3 each of high-demand items like bath tissue, hand sanitizer, and some medications Friday afternoon, March 13, 2020. Shoppers across Michigan are also stocking their pantries with essentials like bread, meat, eggs, and canned goods in anticipation of a coronavirus outbreak in the area. Brian Widdis, Brian Widdis/Special to the Free Press Fullscreen A classroom sits empty at the Cesar Chavez Academy High School as the Coronavirus threat makes it risky for large groups to congregate Friday, March, 13, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Shoppers wait in line among empty produce bins at Kroger in Grosse Pointe, Friday afternoon, March 13, 2020. People across Michigan are stocking their pantries with essentials like bread, meat, eggs, and canned goods in anticipation of a coronavirus outbreak in the area. Brian Widdis, Brian Widdis/Special to the Free Press Fullscreen Lynette Moser, of Windsor, left, meets with her Wayne State Department of Pharmacy Practice colleague Sheila Wilhelm of Troy over coffee at the Great Lakes Coffee Roasting Company in Detroit during uncertain times concerning the Coronavirus threat Friday, March, 13, 2020. The coffee shop mandated serving all customers in to-go cups instead of porcelain. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A free toilet paper with purchase of a toilet sign has been on display in front of Evelux Pumbling, Friday, March 13, 2020, by Michael Lux, the owner and master plumber at Evelux on Elizebeth Lake Road Waterford, Michigan. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Chris Emrich, 24, a freelance writer and recent Wayne State journalism graduate, drinks a coffee at Great Lakes Coffee Roasters in Detroit in spite of the Coronavirus threat Friday, March, 13, 2020. The coffee shop mandated serving all customers in to-go cups instead of porcelain. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Oakland County Health Officer Leigh-Anne Stafford speaks during a press conference at the L. Brooks Patterson Executive Office Building Conference Center in Waterford on Friday, March 13, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Detroit's Cesar Chavez Academy High School alumni Elizabeth Cardona, 21, a senior in social work at Saginaw Valley State University, chips in to deep clean her alma mater while she too is on break as schools prepare for the Coronavirus threat Friday, March, 13, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Juan Tripp of Detroit eats a meal at Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries in Detroit on Thursday, March 12, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen People grab supplies while shopping at Costco in Auburn Hills on Wednesday, March 11, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Detroit Rescue Mission Ministries resident specialist Bobbie James wipes down a door with a disinfectant wipe after a person uses the door at the entrance to the shelter in Detroit on Thursday, March 12, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen U of D Jesuit faculty member Charles Gumble gets helps from Dean of Instructional Technology Gwendolyn Bush as she helps organize remote educational tools as Coronavirus threats loom Friday, March, 13, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Matt Wendell of Rock Central loads monitors into a fellow employees car Thursday, March 12, 2020 so that they can work remotely as a precaution to the Coronavirus. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Detroit mayor Mike Duggan gives an update on the cityÕs preparation for COVID-19 at Coleman A. Young Municipal Center in Detroit, Wednesday, March 11, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Joshua Flitton of Quicken Loans Mortgage Services, right, smiles as he is piled in the backseat with 6 monitors for he and his colleagues as they prepare to work remotely due to the Coronavirus scare Thursday, March 12, 2020. Rock Central organized the computer pick-up in a lot in Detroit. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Communication manager Jim Adams of U of D Jesuit walks the halls of his school absent of students as Coronavirus threats loom Friday, March, 13, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Squeaky's Brandy Milke, a team leader, cleans the kitchen at a home in Royal Oak during a deep cleaning session, Friday, March 13, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Denise Fair the chief public health officer talks with the media as Mayor Mike Duggan looks on about the Coronavirus and the Detroit Health Department's recommendation for response to the growing problem. The press conference was held at the mayor's office at City Hall in Detroit, Michigan on Thursday, March 12, 2020. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic local shoppers like Lori Morris are stocking up on water and toilet paper at Ferndale Foods in Ferndale, Michigan Saturday, March 14, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Due to the coronavirus pandemic local shoppers like Richard Smith are stocking up on water and toilet paper at Ferndale Foods in Ferndale, Michigan, Saturday, March 14, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Local shoppers recently stocked up on water and toilet paper at Ferndale Foods in Ferndale. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Ferndale Foods employee Fanar Alsaegh stocks water one of the items selling fast due to panic buying caused by the Coronavirus Pandemic Saturday, March 14, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Bartender Tim Fix prepares a drink for Tim Novak of Shelby Township at the Gaelic League Irish American Club at in Detroit, Saturday, March 14, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Light traffic is seen from Detroit at the American border crossing over the Ambassador Bridge from Canada on Saturday, March 14, 2020. Jessica J. Trevino / Special to the Detroit Free Press Jessica J. Trevino Fullscreen Ambassador Bridge in Detroit, Saturday, March 14, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen St. Patrick’s day revelers gather outside of Nemo’s restaurant on Sunday, March 15, 2020. The annual St. Patrick’s day parade was cancelled this year due to the Coronavirus outbreak. Jessica Trevino, Special to the Free Press Fullscreen Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic the Greektown Casino is blocking off areas making sure no more than 250 people can gather in one space Sunday, March 15, 2020. Kirthmon F. Dozier, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen No service scheduled signs all around the Rosa Parks Transit Center on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. The Detroit Department of Transportation buses didn't run any of their routes today as many drivers called off because of the Coronavirus COVID-19. The bus station which usually has buses and people coming and going from was empty except for some people using the area as a cut through while walking and many pigeons Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Donald Red Geary park in Ferndale, Mich. on Thursday, March 19, 2020 was practically empty due to the spread of the Coronavirus. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen American Coney Island is still open for carry out only in Detroit, Thursday, March 19, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Somerset Collection is still open to the public, like elderly mall walkers, but the majority of stores are closed until further notice due to the Coronavirus, photographed on Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Aerial photo of 6:15pm Woodward Avenue near Spirit of Detroit Plaza, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Mandi Wright and Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Keair Gibson Jr. of Detroit does a side flip at Cadillac Square in downtown Detroit on Tuesday, March 17, 2020 while planning for filming a video as he walks along the downtown area. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Michigan Theater on Liberty Street near University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A woman works on mopping the floor in Maru Sushi in downtown Detroit on Tuesday, March 17, 2020 as the dining room remains closed due to COVID-19. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A few people move around the General Motors Renaissance Center building in downtown Detroit on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Somerset Collection is still open to the public, like elderly mall walkers, but the majority of businesses like Starbucks are closed until further notice due to the Coronavirus, photographed on Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Somerset Collection is still open to the public, like elderly mall walkers, but the majority of businesses like the Apple Store is closed until further notice due to the Coronavirus, photographed on Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Somerset Collection is still open to the public, like elderly mall walkers, but the majority of stores like Macy's are closed until further notice due to the Coronavirus, photographed on Wednesday, March 18, 2020. Kimberly P. Mitchell, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Detroit Police officers ride on their horses while walking along Michigan Avenue in Detroit's Corktown neighborhood on St. Patrick's Day on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Elmer's Hamburgers is still open for business for takeout on Detroit's west side Wednesday, March, 18, 2020. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A panoramic photo taken in the heart of downtown Royal Oak at almost lunchtime shows sparse human existence Tuesday, March, 17, 2020 due to Coronavirus threat. Mandi Wright, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen People walk by or through the Rosa Parks Transit Center on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Detroit Department of Transportation buses didn't run any of their routes today as many drivers called off because of the Coronavirus COVID-19. The bus station usually has buses and people coming and going from was empty except for some people using the area as a cut through while walking and many pigeons. Eric Seals, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Noodles & Company on State Street on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor is taking carryout order only, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Intersections of South State Street and North University Avenue on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen People walk across the Diag, in front of Hatcher Graduate Library on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Michigan Union building on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A man walks by Michigan Theater on Liberty Street near University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Aerial photo of 6:15pm Jefferson Avenue and TCF Center in downtown Detroit, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Mandi Wright and Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Aerial photo of the empty Gaelic League Irish American Club of Detroit in Corktown, Detroit, at 5:30pm, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Mandi Wright and Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Aerial photo of 5:30pm traffic of Michigan Avenue and 14th Street at Corktown in Detroit, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Mandi Wright and Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Aerial photo of 5:30pm traffic on Michigan Avenue at Corktown in Detroit, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Mandi Wright and Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Aerial photo of 5:30pm traffic on I-75, Michigan Avenue from Corktown, Detroit, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Mandi Wright and Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A sign on a downtown Detroit restaurant states the dining room is closed due to COVID-19 on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen An empty Cadillac Square and Campus Martius in downtown Detroit is seen during lunch time on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Chairs are set up in the dining room of American Coney Island in downtown Detroit on Tuesday, March 17, 2020 as the business remains open for carryout only. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Businesses along Michigan Avenue in Detroit's Corktown neighborhood remain closed on St. Patrick's Day on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Three students walk towards the Michigan Union building on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen West Hall on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Starbucks at the intersection of State Street and Liberty Street near University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor is taking carryout order only, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Near the Diag on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A man walks into the Michigan Union building on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Intersections of South State Street and North University Avenue on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Intersections of South State Street and North University Avenue on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Michigan Union building on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Students are moving out from Law Quadrangle on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Ross School of Business on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Bike stands by the Ross School of Business on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Hand sanitizers are seen at the entrance of Ross School of Business on University of Michigan main campus in Ann Arbor, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Aerial photo of 5:30pm traffic on I-75, Michigan Avenue from Corktown, Detroit, Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Mandi Wright and Junfu Han, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen An empty Cadillac Square in downtown Detroit is seen on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Very little traffic is seen on Michigan Avenue in Detroit's Corktown neighborhood on St. Patrick's Day on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Businesses along Michigan Avenue in Detroit's Corktown neighborhood remain closed on St. Patrick's Day on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Businesses along Michigan Avenue in Detroit's Corktown neighborhood remain closed on St. Patrick's Day on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Very little traffic is seen on Michigan Avenue in Detroit's Corktown neighborhood on St. Patrick's Day on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen An empty Cadillac Square in downtown Detroit is seen on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A man stands in an empty Campus Martius in downtown Detroit on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen A man wears a mask while walking along W. Lafayette Blvd in downtown Detroit on Tuesday, March 17, 2020. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Rosalynd Green of Detroit sits on a swing on Woodward Avenue while finding something to due as she works valet for a building in downtown Detroit on Tuesday, March 17, 2020 with few workers due to COVID-19. Ryan Garza, Detroit Free Press Fullscreen Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries: Replay 1 of 237 2 of 237 3 of 237 4 of 237 5 of 237 6 of 237 7 of 237 8 of 237 9 of 237 10 of 237 11 of 237 12 of 237 13 of 237 14 of 237 15 of 237 16 of 237 17 of 237 18 of 237 19 of 237 20 of 237 21 of 237 22 of 237 23 of 237 24 of 237 25 of 237 26 of 237 27 of 237 28 of 237 29 of 237 30 of 237 31 of 237 32 of 237 33 of 237 34 of 237 35 of 237 36 of 237 37 of 237 38 of 237 39 of 237 40 of 237 41 of 237 42 of 237 43 of 237 44 of 237 45 of 237 46 of 237 47 of 237 48 of 237 49 of 237 50 of 237 51 of 237 52 of 237 53 of 237 54 of 237 55 of 237 56 of 237 57 of 237 58 of 237 59 of 237 60 of 237 61 of 237 62 of 237 63 of 237 64 of 237 65 of 237 66 of 237 67 of 237 68 of 237 69 of 237 70 of 237 71 of 237 72 of 237 73 of 237 74 of 237 75 of 237 76 of 237 77 of 237 78 of 237 79 of 237 80 of 237 81 of 237 82 of 237 83 of 237 84 of 237 85 of 237 86 of 237 87 of 237 88 of 237 89 of 237 90 of 237 91 of 237 92 of 237 93 of 237 94 of 237 95 of 237 96 of 237 97 of 237 98 of 237 99 of 237 100 of 237 101 of 237 102 of 237 103 of 237 104 of 237 105 of 237 106 of 237 107 of 237 108 of 237 109 of 237 110 of 237 111 of 237 112 of 237 113 of 237 114 of 237 115 of 237 116 of 237 117 of 237 118 of 237 119 of 237 120 of 237 121 of 237 122 of 237 123 of 237 124 of 237 125 of 237 126 of 237 127 of 237 128 of 237 129 of 237 130 of 237 131 of 237 132 of 237 133 of 237 134 of 237 135 of 237 136 of 237 137 of 237 138 of 237 139 of 237 140 of 237 141 of 237 142 of 237 143 of 237 144 of 237 145 of 237 146 of 237 147 of 237 148 of 237 149 of 237 150 of 237 151 of 237 152 of 237 153 of 237 154 of 237 155 of 237 156 of 237 157 of 237 158 of 237 159 of 237 160 of 237 161 of 237 162 of 237 163 of 237 164 of 237 165 of 237 166 of 237 167 of 237 168 of 237 169 of 237 170 of 237 171 of 237 172 of 237 173 of 237 174 of 237 175 of 237 176 of 237 177 of 237 178 of 237 179 of 237 180 of 237 181 of 237 182 of 237 183 of 237 184 of 237 185 of 237 186 of 237 187 of 237 188 of 237 189 of 237 190 of 237 191 of 237 192 of 237 193 of 237 194 of 237 195 of 237 196 of 237 197 of 237 198 of 237 199 of 237 200 of 237 201 of 237 202 of 237 203 of 237 204 of 237 205 of 237 206 of 237 207 of 237 208 of 237 209 of 237 210 of 237 211 of 237 212 of 237 213 of 237 214 of 237 215 of 237 216 of 237 217 of 237 218 of 237 219 of 237 220 of 237 221 of 237 222 of 237 223 of 237 224 of 237 225 of 237 226 of 237 227 of 237 228 of 237 229 of 237 230 of 237 231 of 237 232 of 237 233 of 237 234 of 237 235 of 237 236 of 237 237 of 237 Autoplay Show Thumbnails Show CaptionsLast SlideNext Slide Detroit's arts and culture groups find unity, shared mission amid pandemic As the urgency of the emerging pandemic swept across the nation, dozens of key Detroit arts and culture players convened March 12 for an emergency meeting online. “People were realizing there was a tsunami,” recalled Culture Source director Omari Rush. “You were on the beach. You could see it. And there was nowhere to run.” Rush’s hastily arranged Zoom conference call drew about 50 leaders from cultural institutions across the region.  For all the confusion of that first “intense day,” as Rush called it, a shared mission quickly took hold among organizations. ► Read more CEOs say front-line workers, customers deserve their help One CEO can only window wave to family, including his first grandchild, while another was relegated to a face mask-covered goodbye at his mother’s funeral. Such surreal scenes are playing out everywhere as the COVID-19 pandemic affects so many. That includes CEOs of two major businesses I checked in with who have been working 24/7 to keep their employees safe, help health care workers and first responders, assist customers under siege while juggling the personal side of the ordeal. For DTE Energy President and CEO Jerry Norcia, who oversees 11,000 employees with more than three million electric and gas customers, it has meant constantly setting new goals to meet quickly evolving needs. For Joseph Richardson, Jr., president and CEO of AAA: The Auto Club Group — which includes Michigan and 12 other states — it’s been all hands on deck as they roll up their sleeves to help. ► Read more Is this news valuable to you? If so, we encourage you to subscribe to the Free Press You can also support local journalism with a tax-deductible contribution to fund additional reporting at the Free Press. Click here to donate to the Free Press' partnership with Report for America that will put new reporters on the ground in metro Detroit. ​​​​​Do you work in a nursing home or senior center affected by the coronavirus? Have you or your family personally been affected? We'd like to talk to you. Please email Chris Hall at chall@freepress.com or send secure (encrypted) email to chall99@protonmail.com. Are you a health care worker concerned about personal protective equipment (PPE) or other issues during the coronavirus outbreak? We’d like to talk to you. Email Kristen Shamus@KristenShamus at kshamus@freepress.com or by secure (encrypted) email at kristenshamus@protonmail.com. Do you have a family member or close friend who has died from COVID-19? We would like honor them. Please contact Georgea Kovanis at gkovanis@freepress.com to share their story. Follow Detroit Free Press on Twitter (@freep), Instagram (@detroitfreepress) and like us on Facebook (@detroitfreepress). CONNECTTWEETLINKEDINCOMMENTEMAILMORE Read or Share this story: https://www.freep.com/story/news/local/michigan/2020/04/26/coronavirus-updates-michigan/3025377001/ Find Jobs Share your feedback to help improve our site experience! More Stories Police recover body of 6-year-old boy who vanished while fishing with dad April 26, 2020, 10:59 a.m. Gov. Whitmer takes turn in national spotlight April 26, 2020, 11:10 a.m. Mom with COVID-19 has twins as dad faced death: 'Let me live' April 26, 2020, 11:31 a.m. Experts: More COVID-19 testing needed for Michigan to reopen April 26, 2020, 6 a.m. Media companies support the metro Detroit arts April 26, 2020, 8:18 a.m. Patient count at 2 field hospitals: 16 on Saturday April 25, 2020, 10:10 p.m. Subscribe Contact Us Meet the Staff Newsletters Apps Chat Support Connect With Us Support Home News Marijuana Detroit Wayne Oakland Macomb Michigan More... Michigan Politics National Politics Education Sports Lions Tigers Red Wings Pistons Wolverines Spartans More... High Schools Scoreboard Sports Awards Autos General Motors Ford Chrysler Entertainment Music Movies TV + Radio Restaurants Impact Investigations USA TODAY Mitch Albom Opinion Obituaries Business Michigan House Envy Careers Top Workplaces Life Michigan House Envy Homes Health + Fitness Cooking + Recipes Advice Public Notices Archives Business Directory Give Feedback Corrections © 2020 www.freep.com. All rights reserved. Services Archives eEdition Subscriber Guide Place an Ad in Classifieds RSS Our Ethical Principles Accessibility Support Public Notices Do not sell my data / Cookie policy Advertise With Us Advertising Terms and Conditions Community Rules Got a Question? Letters to the Editor Detroit Free Press Marathon Detroit Newspapers in Education Your California Privacy Rights/Privacy Policy Reading Works Page and Photo Reprints Subscriber Services Terms of Service Website Help Sitemap Work With Us Privacy Policy Our Partners The Job Network Cars.com Detroit Homes Detroit Newspapers in Education MovingCompanyReviews.com Michigan.com Renvy.com Thanksgiving.com 10Best Grateful