‘I am negative’: Kory Earle of Carleton Place tests negative for coronavirus | ParrySound.com ‘I am negative’: Kory Earle of Carleton Place tests negative for coronavirus News 11:52 AM by Tara Gesner Carleton Place Almonte Canadian Gazette Carleton Place resident Kory Earle has tested negative for COVID-19. He received the results today (March 18) from the Leeds, Grenville and Lanark District Health Unit. “I am negative,” Earle said. “I have been waiting since Friday for the results.” “Trust me, there is no one who wanted to know the outcome more than me – and my family,” he added. “I am very pleased.” Earle has been self-isolating at home since leaving the Carleton Place & District Memorial Hospital on March 13. He was taken to the hospital by ambulance late Friday because of a cough, headache and fever. “I was totally out of it,” Earle said. He was tested for COVID-19 as a precaution, which involved a nasal swab. Upon leaving the hospital, Earle was prescribed Tamiflu, which treats symptoms caused by influenza. On March 11, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. As of March 18, there are 183 confirmed cases in Ontario, with 468 in Canada. Five fatalities have resulted from COVID-19. Worldwide, the number of cases is nearing 205,000, with more than 8,200 fatalities. Health wise, Earle is feeling much better, and he no longer needs to self-isolate. Since Earle’s story went public, there has been backlash from an angry and confused public. Some individuals commented on social media, others reached out to Earle directly, and a few even contacted members of his family. “Rumours ... it is so unfortunate some people in this community indicated I had the virus before my results came back,” he said. Earle noted: “I will always stand up on behalf of myself, others and this community. I want to sincerely thank those who were concerned about me. Their love and support meant a lot.”   ‘I am negative’: Kory Earle of Carleton Place tests negative for coronavirus News 11:52 AM by Tara Gesner Carleton Place Almonte Canadian Gazette Carleton Place resident Kory Earle has tested negative for COVID-19. He received the results today (March 18) from the Leeds, Grenville and Lanark District Health Unit. “I am negative,” Earle said. “I have been waiting since Friday for the results.” “Trust me, there is no one who wanted to know the outcome more than me – and my family,” he added. “I am very pleased.” Related Content 'I am afraid': Carleton Place's Kory Earle waits for coronavirus test results 3 test positive for coronavirus in Kingston area Earle has been self-isolating at home since leaving the Carleton Place & District Memorial Hospital on March 13. He was taken to the hospital by ambulance late Friday because of a cough, headache and fever. “I was totally out of it,” Earle said. He was tested for COVID-19 as a precaution, which involved a nasal swab. Upon leaving the hospital, Earle was prescribed Tamiflu, which treats symptoms caused by influenza. On March 11, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. As of March 18, there are 183 confirmed cases in Ontario, with 468 in Canada. Five fatalities have resulted from COVID-19. Worldwide, the number of cases is nearing 205,000, with more than 8,200 fatalities. Health wise, Earle is feeling much better, and he no longer needs to self-isolate. Since Earle’s story went public, there has been backlash from an angry and confused public. Some individuals commented on social media, others reached out to Earle directly, and a few even contacted members of his family. “Rumours ... it is so unfortunate some people in this community indicated I had the virus before my results came back,” he said. Earle noted: “I will always stand up on behalf of myself, others and this community. I want to sincerely thank those who were concerned about me. Their love and support meant a lot.”   Top Stories ‘I am negative’: Kory Earle of Carleton Place tests negative for coronavirus News 11:52 AM by Tara Gesner Carleton Place Almonte Canadian Gazette Carleton Place resident Kory Earle has tested negative for COVID-19. He received the results today (March 18) from the Leeds, Grenville and Lanark District Health Unit. “I am negative,” Earle said. “I have been waiting since Friday for the results.” “Trust me, there is no one who wanted to know the outcome more than me – and my family,” he added. “I am very pleased.” Related Content 'I am afraid': Carleton Place's Kory Earle waits for coronavirus test results 3 test positive for coronavirus in Kingston area Earle has been self-isolating at home since leaving the Carleton Place & District Memorial Hospital on March 13. He was taken to the hospital by ambulance late Friday because of a cough, headache and fever. “I was totally out of it,” Earle said. He was tested for COVID-19 as a precaution, which involved a nasal swab. Upon leaving the hospital, Earle was prescribed Tamiflu, which treats symptoms caused by influenza. On March 11, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. As of March 18, there are 183 confirmed cases in Ontario, with 468 in Canada. Five fatalities have resulted from COVID-19. Worldwide, the number of cases is nearing 205,000, with more than 8,200 fatalities. Health wise, Earle is feeling much better, and he no longer needs to self-isolate. Since Earle’s story went public, there has been backlash from an angry and confused public. Some individuals commented on social media, others reached out to Earle directly, and a few even contacted members of his family. “Rumours ... it is so unfortunate some people in this community indicated I had the virus before my results came back,” he said. Earle noted: “I will always stand up on behalf of myself, others and this community. I want to sincerely thank those who were concerned about me. Their love and support meant a lot.”   Top Stories More News More News