In Iran, false belief a poison fights virus kills hundreds | The Seattle Times Skip to content Menu Coronavirus Local News Traffic Lab Crime Local Politics Education Education Lab Eastside Health Data Project Homeless Times Watchdog Business & Tech Boeing & Aerospace Amazon Microsoft Technology Real Estate Economy Artificial Intelligence Nation & World Nation & World Politics Oddities Sports Seahawks Huskies Cougars Mariners Sounders Storm High School Sports Hockey On TV/Radio Entertainment Movies Books Music Theater Classical Music TV/Streaming Comics Games & Puzzles Horoscopes Life Food & Drink Travel & Outdoors Wellness Pets Rant & Rave Pacific NW Magazine Homes & Real Estate Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor David Horsey Video Photography Obituaries News Obituaries Paid Obituaries Newsletters Print Replica Inside The Times Explore Jobs Autos Log In Subscribe Search World Coronavirus Local Biz Sports Entertainment Life Homes Opinion | Jobs Autos Explore Nation World Nation & World Politics Oddities All Sections Local Traffic Lab Project Homeless Crime Local Politics Education Education Lab Eastside Northwest Data Health Times Watchdog Inside The Times News Obituaries Photo & Video Nation & World Politics Oddities Business Boeing Amazon Artificial Intelligence Microsoft Technology Economy Real Estate Sports Seahawks Huskies Cougars High Schools Mariners Sounders Snow Sports Geoff Baker Matt Calkins Larry Stone Bob Condotta On TV/Radio Entertainment Movies Books Music Theater Classical Music TV/Streaming Comics Games & Puzzles Horoscopes Life Pacific NW Magazine Food & Drink Happy Hour Wellness Home & Decor Pets Rant & Rave Bethany Jean Clement Travel Outdoors Northwest Hikes Washington Oregon B.C. Hawaii Opinion Editorials Letters Op-Eds Kate Riley Mark Higgins Brier Dudley David Horsey Columnists FYI Guy Seattle Sketcher Danny Westneat Naomi Ishisaka Jobs Autos Homes Listings Classifieds Paid Obituaries Explore Sponsored Posts ShopNW Seattle Times Store Contact FAQs Subscriber Services Print Replica iOS App Android App World Nation World Nation & World Politics Oddities World Log In Subscribe World In Iran, false belief a poison fights virus kills hundreds March 26, 2020 at 11:04 pm Updated March 26, 2020 at 11:41 pm By Jon Gambrell and NASSER KARIMI The Associated Press TEHRAN, Iran (AP) — Standing over the still body of an intubated 5-year-old boy wearing nothing but a plastic diaper, an Iranian health care worker in a hazmat suit and mask begged the public for just one thing: Stop drinking industrial alcohol over fears about the new coronavirus. The boy, now blind after his parents gave him toxic methanol in the mistaken belief it protects against the virus, is just one of hundreds of victims of an epidemic inside the pandemic now gripping Iran. Iranian media reports nearly 300 people have been killed and more than 1,000 sickened so far by ingesting methanol across the Islamic Republic, where drinking alcohol is banned and where those who do rely on bootleggers. It comes as fake remedies spread across social media in Iran, where people remain deeply suspicious of the government after it downplayed the crisis for days before it overwhelmed the country. “The virus is spreading and people are just dying off, and I think they are even less aware of the fact that there are other dangers around,” said Dr. Knut Erik Hovda, a clinical toxicologist in Oslo who studies methanol poisoning and fears Iran’s outbreak could be even worse than reported. “When they keep drinking this, there’s going to be more people poisoned.” For most people, the new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia, or death. The pandemic has swept across the world, overwhelming hospitals, crippling economies and forcing governments to restrict the movements of billions of people. Particularly hard hit has been Iran, home to 80 million people. Advertising As of now, there is no known cure for COVID-19, the illness caused by the virus. Scientists and doctors continue to study the virus and search for effective medicines and a vaccine. But in messages forwarded and forwarded again, Iranian social media accounts in Farsi falsely suggested a British school teacher and others cured themselves of the coronavirus with whiskey and honey, based on a tabloid story from early February. Mixed with messages about the use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers, some wrongly believed drinking high-proof alcohol would kill the virus in their bodies. The Islamic Republic has reported over 29,000 confirmed cases and more than 2,200 deaths from the virus, the highest toll of any country in the Middle East. International experts also fear Iran may be under-reporting its cases, as officials for days played down the virus ahead of a parliamentary election. That fear of the virus, coupled with poor education and internet rumors, saw dozens sickened by drinking bootleg alcohol containing methanol in Iran’s southwestern Khuzestan province and its southern city of Shiraz. Videos aired by Iranian media showed patients with IVs stuck in their arms, laying on beds otherwise needed for the fight against the coronavirus, including the intubated 5-year-old boy. Iranian media also reported cases in the cities of Karaj and Yazd. In Iran, the government mandates that manufacturers of toxic methanol add an artificial color to their products so the public can tell it apart from ethanol, the kind of alcohol that can be used in cleaning wounds. Ethanol is also the kind of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages, though its production is illegal in Iran. Some bootleggers in Iran use methanol, adding a splash of bleach to mask the added color before selling it as drinkable. Sometimes it is mixed with consumable alcohol to stretch supply, other times it comes as methanol, falsely advertised as drinkable, Hovda said. Methanol also can contaminate traditionally fermented alcohol. Advertising Methanol cannot be smelled or tasted in drinks. It causes delayed organ and brain damage. Symptoms include chest pain, nausea, hyperventilation, blindness and even coma. “It is rumored that alcohol can wash and sanitize the digestive system,” said Dr. Javad Amini Saman in Iran’s western city of Kermanshah, where dozens have been hospitalized, “That is very wrong.” Even before the outbreak, methanol poisoning had taken a toll in Iran. One academic study found methanol poisoning sickened 768 people in Iran between September and October 2018 alone, killing 76. Other Muslim nations that ban their citizens from drinking also see such methanol poisoning, although Iran appears to be the only one in the pandemic so far to turn toward it as a fake cure. In Buddhist Cambodia, police said they seized 4,200 liters (1,100 gallons) of methanol from a man who unwittingly planned to make toxic hand sanitizer because of the virus outbreak. Muslim drinkers in Iran can be punished with cash fines and 80 lashes. However, minority Christians, Jews and Zoroastrians can drink alcoholic beverages in private. While police occasionally announce alcohol busts, the trade in nontoxic alcohol also continues. Locally made Iranian arak from fermented raisins, known as Aragh sagi, sells for $10 for a 1.5-liter bottle. Imported vodka sells for $40 a bottle. “Every year during Nowruz, or the Persian New Year holidays that begin March 21, my customers double,” said Rafik, an Iranian-Armenian who makes vodka in the basement of his Tehran home. He spoke on the condition that only his first name be used for fear of arrest. “This year, because of corona, it jumped up by four- or five-fold.” Farhad, a self-described heavy drinker who lives in central Tehran, said alcohol remains easy to find for those looking for it. “Even you can find it offered when you are walking down the street, “ he said. Most Read Nation & World Stories Swiss hotel offers luxury quarantine package including $500 coronavirus test The U.S. now leads the world in confirmed coronavirus cases  VIEW Pelosi forecasts House OK of Senate’s $2.2T virus aid plan  VIEW Britain’s Prince Charles tests positive for the coronavirus Governors frustrated with offer of ‘backup’ Since 1979, Iran’s 40 alcohol factories have seen their production changed to pharmaceutical needs and sanitizers. Others had been left idle, like the abandoned Shams alcohol factory east of Tehran. But now, in a time when even some mosques in Iran hand out high-proof alcohol as a sanitizer, officials plan to start work again at Shams to produce 22,000 liters of 99% alcohol a day. ___ Gambrell reported from Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Associated Press writer Sopheng Cheang in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, contributed. ___ The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content. Jon Gambrell NASSER KARIMI The Seattle Times does not append comment threads to stories from wire services such as the Associated Press, The New York Times, The Washington Post or Bloomberg News. Rather, we focus on discussions related to local stories by our own staff. You can read more about our community policies here. Advertising Contact Newsroom Staff List FAQ Contact Form About the Company Seattle Restaurant Week Newspapers in Education Fund for the Needy Employment Newspaper Archive Pulitzers Company Information Permissions Seattle Times Store Advertise Classifieds Autos Homes Obituary Jobs Media Kit Advertise with Us My Account Subscribe Activate Account Manage Subscription Place Temporary Hold Report Delivery Issue Make a Payment Print Replica Today’s Front Page Facebook Twitter RSS Feeds Newsletters Mobile Apps Audio & Voice Subscribe Copyright © 2020 The Seattle Times | Privacy statement | Terms of service