In Iran, false belief a poison fights virus kills hundreds - HoustonChronicle.com Currently Reading In Iran, false belief a poison fights virus kills hundreds Facebook Twitter Email LinkedIn Reddit Pinterest Comments Next Story Subscribe e-edition Sign In Local Coronavirus Houston Education Texas Transportation Neighborhoods Houston Rodeo Obituaries Weather Texas Sports Nation Texans Astros Rockets Dynamo & Dash College Sports HS Sports About TSN Business Home Price Survey Energy Houston How To Real Estate Retail Top Workplaces TechBurger Politics Election 2020 Houston Texas U.S. & World Preview Movies & TV Music Arts & Exhibits Classical Dance Dining Theater ReNew Houston Wellness Nutrition Fitness Health Food & Culture Lifestyle Restaurants & Bars Society Restaurant Reviews Design Home & Garden Barbecue Recipes Opinion Editorials Outlook Letters to the Editor Columnists Endorsements Special Projects Broken Trust Abuse of Faith Heart Failure Top 100 Restaurants Out of Control Voter Guide School Report Card Newsletters Morning Report Must Reads Fuel Fix Release Notes Texas Inc. The Daily Playbook Podcasts BBQ State of Mind Looped In Texas Sports Nation Texas Take Shop the Chronicle Terms of Use Privacy Notice Archive e-Edition Coronavirus New Normal Local Texas Sports Nation Election 2020 Weather Business Preview ReNew Food Opinion Special Projects Podcasts Newsletters US & World // World News In Iran, false belief a poison fights virus kills hundreds By NASSER KARIMI and JON GAMBRELL, Associated Press March 27, 2020 Updated: March 27, 2020 1:35 a.m. Facebook Twitter Email LinkedIn Reddit Pinterest Comments Back to Gallery In Iran, false belief a poison fights virus kills hundreds Facebook Twitter Email LinkedIn Reddit Pinterest Comments 5 1of5FILE — In this Monday, March 2, 2020 file photo, a man wearing a face mask, to help protect against the new coronavirus, speaks on his cellphone in downtown Tehran, Iran. Local media reported Thursday, March 26, 2020, that nearly 300 people have been killed and more than 1,000 sickened by ingesting toxic methanol across the Islamic Republic out of the false belief it kills the new coronavirus. That's as messages forwarded through social media on people surviving the virus by drinking whiskey and using alcohol-based hand sanitizer somehow saw people seek out bootleg liquor in Iran.Photo: Vahid Salemi, AP 2of5In this Sunday, March 1, 2020 photo, a police vehicle disinfects streets against the coronavirus, in Tehran, Iran. Local media reported Thursday, March 26, 2020, that nearly 300 people have been killed and more than 1,000 sickened by ingesting toxic methanol across the Islamic Republic out of the false belief it kills the new coronavirus. That's as messages forwarded through social media on people surviving the virus by drinking whiskey and using alcohol-based hand sanitizer somehow saw people seek out bootleg liquor in Iran.Photo: Vahid Salemi, AP 3of5FILE — In this March 3, 2020 file photo, people have their temperature checked as they enter the Palladium Shopping Center, in northern Tehran, Iran. Local media reported Thursday March 26, 2020, that nearly 300 people have been killed and more than 1,000 sickened by ingesting toxic methanol across the Islamic Republic out of the false belief it kills the new coronavirus. The virus causes mild or moderate symptoms for most people, but for some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness or death.Photo: Vahid Salemi, AP 4of5In this Friday, March 13, 2020 photo, firefighters disinfect a square against the new coronavirus as a man takes film, in western Tehran, Iran. Local media reported Thursday March 26, 2020, that nearly 300 people have been killed and more than 1,000 sickened by ingesting toxic methanol across the Islamic Republic out of the false belief it kills the virus.Photo: Vahid Salemi, AP 5of5FILE — In this Wednesday, March 25, 2020 file photo, a member of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard disinfects a taxi to help prevent the spread of the new coronavirus in downtown Tehran, Iran. Local media reported Thursday that nearly 300 people have been killed and more than 1,000 sickened by ingesting toxic methanol across the Islamic Republic out of the false belief it kills the new coronavirus.Photo: Ebrahim Noroozi, AP TEHRAN, Iran (AP) — Standing over the still body of an intubated 5-year-old boy wearing nothing but a plastic diaper, an Iranian health care worker in a hazmat suit and mask begged the public for just one thing: Stop drinking industrial alcohol over fears about the new coronavirus. The boy, now blind after his parents gave him toxic methanol in the mistaken belief it protects against the virus, is just one of hundreds of victims of an epidemic inside the pandemic now gripping Iran. Iranian media reports nearly 300 people have been killed and more than 1,000 sickened so far by ingesting methanol across the Islamic Republic, where drinking alcohol is banned and where those who do rely on bootleggers. It comes as fake remedies spread across social media in Iran, where people remain deeply suspicious of the government after it downplayed the crisis for days before it overwhelmed the country. “The virus is spreading and people are just dying off, and I think they are even less aware of the fact that there are other dangers around,” said Dr. Knut Erik Hovda, a clinical toxicologist in Oslo who studies methanol poisoning and fears Iran's outbreak could be even worse than reported. “When they keep drinking this, there's going to be more people poisoned.” For most people, the new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia, or death. The pandemic has swept across the world, overwhelming hospitals, crippling economies and forcing governments to restrict the movements of billions of people. Particularly hard hit has been Iran, home to 80 million people. As of now, there is no known cure for COVID-19, the illness caused by the virus. Scientists and doctors continue to study the virus and search for effective medicines and a vaccine. But in messages forwarded and forwarded again, Iranian social media accounts in Farsi falsely suggested a British school teacher and others cured themselves of the coronavirus with whiskey and honey, based on a tabloid story from early February. Mixed with messages about the use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers, some wrongly believed drinking high-proof alcohol would kill the virus in their bodies. The Islamic Republic has reported over 29,000 confirmed cases and more than 2,200 deaths from the virus, the highest toll of any country in the Middle East. International experts also fear Iran may be under-reporting its cases, as officials for days played down the virus ahead of a parliamentary election. That fear of the virus, coupled with poor education and internet rumors, saw dozens sickened by drinking bootleg alcohol containing methanol in Iran's southwestern Khuzestan province and its southern city of Shiraz. Videos aired by Iranian media showed patients with IVs stuck in their arms, laying on beds otherwise needed for the fight against the coronavirus, including the intubated 5-year-old boy. Iranian media also reported cases in the cities of Karaj and Yazd. In Iran, the government mandates that manufacturers of toxic methanol add an artificial color to their products so the public can tell it apart from ethanol, the kind of alcohol that can be used in cleaning wounds. Ethanol is also the kind of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages, though its production is illegal in Iran. Some bootleggers in Iran use methanol, adding a splash of bleach to mask the added color before selling it as drinkable. Sometimes it is mixed with consumable alcohol to stretch supply, other times it comes as methanol, falsely advertised as drinkable, Hovda said. Methanol also can contaminate traditionally fermented alcohol. Methanol cannot be smelled or tasted in drinks. It causes delayed organ and brain damage. Symptoms include chest pain, nausea, hyperventilation, blindness and even coma. “It is rumored that alcohol can wash and sanitize the digestive system," said Dr. Javad Amini Saman in Iran's western city of Kermanshah, where dozens have been hospitalized, "That is very wrong.” Even before the outbreak, methanol poisoning had taken a toll in Iran. One academic study found methanol poisoning sickened 768 people in Iran between September and October 2018 alone, killing 76. Other Muslim nations that ban their citizens from drinking also see such methanol poisoning, although Iran appears to be the only one in the pandemic so far to turn toward it as a fake cure. In Buddhist Cambodia, police said they seized 4,200 liters (1,100 gallons) of methanol from a man who unwittingly planned to make toxic hand sanitizer because of the virus outbreak. Muslim drinkers in Iran can be punished with cash fines and 80 lashes. However, minority Christians, Jews and Zoroastrians can drink alcoholic beverages in private. While police occasionally announce alcohol busts, the trade in nontoxic alcohol also continues. Locally made Iranian arak from fermented raisins, known as Aragh sagi, sells for $10 for a 1.5-liter bottle. Imported vodka sells for $40 a bottle. “Every year during Nowruz, or the Persian New Year holidays that begin March 21, my customers double," said Rafik, an Iranian-Armenian who makes vodka in the basement of his Tehran home. He spoke on the condition that only his first name be used for fear of arrest. “This year, because of corona, it jumped up by four- or five-fold.” Farhad, a self-described heavy drinker who lives in central Tehran, said alcohol remains easy to find for those looking for it. “Even you can find it offered when you are walking down the street, “ he said. Since 1979, Iran's 40 alcohol factories have seen their production changed to pharmaceutical needs and sanitizers. Others had been left idle, like the abandoned Shams alcohol factory east of Tehran. But now, in a time when even some mosques in Iran hand out high-proof alcohol as a sanitizer, officials plan to start work again at Shams to produce 22,000 liters of 99% alcohol a day. ___ Gambrell reported from Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Associated Press writer Sopheng Cheang in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, contributed. ___ The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content. Most Popular Coronavirus live updates: Memorial Hermann changes its visitation policy Texas Coronavirus Map: See the latest numbers on our interactive tracker Some large retailers, claiming to be ‘essential’ businesses, remain open in Houston Coronavirus spread in Houston could burn out by mid-May under stay-at-home order Mobile phone location data shows Harris County residents keeping their distance [Updated] Here’s why Harris County allowed liquor stores to remain open Coronavirus live updates: HISD food distribution canceled indefinitely Top of the News Astros Chandler Rome MLB, MLBPA reach agreement amid coronavirus pandemic Texans Aaron Wilson Texans’ Jamey Rootes on Greater Houston COVID-19 Recovery Fund:... Houston By Hannah Dellinger, Staff writer Memorial Hermann limits most visits at all facilities until further... In-Depth Houston By Nicole Hensley, Staff writer First Covid-19 death reported in Houston as city, county struggle... Astros By David Barron, Staff writer Jimmy Wynn: Toy Cannon stood tall with early Astros World news Germany sends plane to rescue stranded tourists from Nepal World news India's central bank cuts benchmark rate to decade-low 4.4% Medical EU leaders order up recovery plan for after coronavirus World news EU members to launch talks with Albania, North Macedonia US & World Kidnapped French, Iraqi aid workers released after 2 months World news 'Terrified' South Africa nears lockdown; cases almost 1,000 Energy Oil resumes plunge after IEA warns that demand is n ‘free fall’ Medical If you don't laugh, you cry: Coping with virus through humor Return to Top About Our Company Newspaper Delivery Safety Procedures Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Advertising Careers Contact Subscribe e-Edition Archives Customer Service Frequently Asked Questions Newsroom Contacts ©2020 Hearst