Fibromyalgia - cymbalta and fibromyalgia Home | Appointments | About The Center Arthritis Info Patient Resources Physician Resources Arthritis News Arthritis Research Ask The Expert Ask The Expert Main  >  Fibromyalgia cymbalta and fibromyalgia     After years of suffering from depression, anxiety, IBS,lower back pain, neck/shoulder pain- dx with osteoarthritis~ a pain management doctor started me on Cymbalta. Although I have chronic pain in nearly all 18 "tenderpoints"- when pressure is applied- I DON'T HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL DISCOMFORT. I honestly believe you could hit me with a sledge hammer and I wouldn't feel it. My doctor has dx me with fibromyalgia- could this be possible?     Hi Rebecca, Wow, you are so fortunate to have had such a great response to Cymbalta.  Not everyone responds, and for sure, those who do respond often don't have such a dramatic improvement.  The symptoms that you describe are compatible with fibromyalgia but we can't make a diagnosis over the internet, so you should rely on your doctor's expertise for this. Last update: 05:41 PM Friday, December 5, 2008 Tell A Friend Tell a Friend Author: Joan Bathon, MD Views: 1 Reference Links Fibromyalgia Information Fibromyalgia Treatment Information Fibromyalgia Forum Related Questions: Colon Cleansing for Fibromyalgia? Fibromyalgia specialist in New York City? Doctors treating Fibromyalgia in Central Maryland? Doctors treating Fibromyalgia in Massachusetts? Testing for Fibromyalgia in children? Can Gauifensen flush the body of all agents that cause Fibromyalgia? Doctors in the Chicago area that treat Fibromyalgia? Doctors in the Minneapolis area that treat Fibromyalgia? Fibromyalgia blood test results? Good Fibromyalgia Physician? Diagnosis of Ehlers Danlos Syndrome? Rheumatoid Specialists in the State of Florida Herniated Disc and Rheumatoid Arthritis What do I have? fibromyalgia and arthritis Fibromyalgia specialist in DC area In Need of Fibromyalgia & Myositis Specialists Is Fibromyalgia Life Threatening? RA and major organs Re: Need doctor 2 Swollen Muscles FMS Do NSAIDs help Fibromyalgia? Referal to fibro expert Polymyalgia And Fibromyalgia Recommendation Fibromyalgia and remicade or Arava Anti-Nuclear Antibodies Fibromyalgia syndrome and high white blood count Recommendation in Michigan Flexeril and Fibromyalgia Ask The Expert Ask A Question Arthritis Info Rheumatoid Arthritis Osteoarthritis Psoriatic Arthritis Gout Fibromyalgia Lupus Lyme Disease Osteoporosis Sjren's Syndrome Arthritis Newsletter Sitemap | Copyright |Privacy Policy | RSS |Contact Us | Hopkins Rheumatology