Fibromyalgia - Colon Cleansing for Fibromyalgia? Home | Appointments | About The Center Arthritis Info Patient Resources Physician Resources Arthritis News Arthritis Research Ask The Expert Ask The Expert Main  >  Fibromyalgia Colon Cleansing for Fibromyalgia?     I was told about a Dr. from Johns Hopkins who did a radio talk show about a 90 day colon cleanse that helps people with fibromyalgia, among some other problems. How can I get this information?     I am unaware of this procedure.  To my knowledge, it is not in widespread practice (here or elsewhere) and has not received FDA or other regulatory approval for fibromyalgia Last update: 03:03 PM Friday, December 7, 2007 Tell A Friend Tell a Friend Author: Jon Giles, M.D. Views: 1 Reference Links Fibromyalgia Information Fibromyalgia Treatment Information Fibromyalgia Forum Related Questions: cymbalta and fibromyalgia Fibromyalgia specialist in New York City? Doctors treating Fibromyalgia in Central Maryland? Doctors treating Fibromyalgia in Massachusetts? Testing for Fibromyalgia in children? Can Gauifensen flush the body of all agents that cause Fibromyalgia? Doctors in the Chicago area that treat Fibromyalgia? Doctors in the Minneapolis area that treat Fibromyalgia? Fibromyalgia blood test results? Good Fibromyalgia Physician? Diagnosis of Ehlers Danlos Syndrome? Rheumatoid Specialists in the State of Florida Herniated Disc and Rheumatoid Arthritis What do I have? fibromyalgia and arthritis Fibromyalgia specialist in DC area In Need of Fibromyalgia & Myositis Specialists Is Fibromyalgia Life Threatening? RA and major organs Re: Need doctor 2 Swollen Muscles FMS Do NSAIDs help Fibromyalgia? Referal to fibro expert Polymyalgia And Fibromyalgia Recommendation Fibromyalgia and remicade or Arava Anti-Nuclear Antibodies Fibromyalgia syndrome and high white blood count Recommendation in Michigan Flexeril and Fibromyalgia Ask The Expert Ask A Question Arthritis Info Rheumatoid Arthritis Osteoarthritis Psoriatic Arthritis Gout Fibromyalgia Lupus Lyme Disease Osteoporosis Sjren's Syndrome Arthritis Newsletter Sitemap | Copyright |Privacy Policy | RSS |Contact Us | Hopkins Rheumatology