Don’t touch ‘it’: Wearing masks properly helps prevent coronavirus spread but can create ‘false sense of security,’ WHO warns | GuelphMercury.com Don’t touch ‘it’: Wearing masks properly helps prevent coronavirus spread but can create ‘false sense of security,’ WHO warns News 03:55 PM by Chris Halliday Orangeville Banner Is it mask on or mask off? Chances are some of us will put on a medical mask at some point during the new coronavirus, or COVID-19, outbreak. If we do, it will most likely be because we’re displaying or caring for someone showing symptoms of coronavirus such as fever, cough, squeeze or difficulty breathing. TO START: You’ve heard it repeatedly. A medical mask is not required for members of the public who don’t have respiratory symptoms. There is no evidence available on its usefulness to protect non-sick persons. THEN AGAIN: The World Health Organization (WHO) recognizes wearing a medical mask is “one” of the prevention measures to limit spread of certain respiratory diseases, including COVID-19, in affected areas. While the use of a mask alone is “insufficient” to provide the adequate level of protection, the WHO says they can be “effective” when used in combination with frequent hand cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. The WHO has a proper and improper medical mask protocol for you to follow. If you don’t know what you’re doing, it could be as though you haven’t been wearing a mask at all. “Wearing medical masks when not indicated may cause unnecessary cost, procurement burden and create a false sense of security that can lead to neglecting other essential measures such as hand hygiene practices,” the WHO warns. “Furthermore, using a mask incorrectly may hamper its effectiveness to reduce the risk of transmission.” STATE OF THE SPREAD Based on current information, the WHO suggests the route of human-to-human transmission of COVID-19 is through respiratory droplets or contact. Anyone within one metre of someone with respiratory symptoms such as sneezing or coughing is at risk of being exposed and/or infected. The WHO says you only "need" to wear a mask if you are taking care of a person with a suspected COVID-19 infection or if you are showing symptoms. PROPER MASK PROTOCOL If medical masks are worn, appropriate use and disposal is essential to ensure they are effective in avoiding any increase in risk of transmission. Here’s what the WHO wants you to keep in mind. • Avoid touching the mask while it is in use. • Remove the mask by using an appropriate technique (i.e. do not touch the front but remove the lace from behind). • Whenever you inadvertently touch a used mask, clean your hands by using an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water if visibly soiled. • Replace masks with a new clean, dry mask as soon as they become damp/humid. • Do not reuse single-use masks. • Discard single-use masks after each use and dispose of them immediately upon removal. • Cloth (i.e. cotton or gauze) masks are not recommended under any circumstance. HOW TO PUT ON, USE, OR REMOVE A MASK Okay, you or someone you know is coughing and squeezing. It’s time to mask up. It’s as simple as that, right? No. If you don’t put on or remove a mask properly, it won't help prevent the virus from spreading. Here’s what you need to do. • Before putting on a mask, clean your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. • Locate the metal strip at the top of the mask and place it over your nose bridge, secure the elastics around your ears or tie the strings behind your head. Make sure it covers your nose, mouth and chin. There should be no gaps between your face and the mask. • Avoid touching the mask while using it as it may be contaminated. If you accidentally touch the front of it while wearing the mask, clean your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. • If your mask becomes damp or humid, replace it with a new dry mask. Never reuse single-use masks and discard them into closed bins immediately after each use. • Remove the mask from behind (do not touch the front of mask); discard immediately in a closed bin; clean hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. For more information about when and how to use masks, visit who.int. Don’t touch ‘it’: Wearing masks properly helps prevent coronavirus spread but can create ‘false sense of security,’ WHO warns News 03:55 PM by Chris Halliday Orangeville Banner Is it mask on or mask off? Chances are some of us will put on a medical mask at some point during the new coronavirus, or COVID-19, outbreak. If we do, it will most likely be because we’re displaying or caring for someone showing symptoms of coronavirus such as fever, cough, squeeze or difficulty breathing. TO START: You’ve heard it repeatedly. A medical mask is not required for members of the public who don’t have respiratory symptoms. There is no evidence available on its usefulness to protect non-sick persons. THEN AGAIN: The World Health Organization (WHO) recognizes wearing a medical mask is “one” of the prevention measures to limit spread of certain respiratory diseases, including COVID-19, in affected areas. Related Content What can I do? Explaining the seemingly-unstoppable coronavirus and its impact on Ontario residents 'Top priority': Pearson Airport taking extra precautions to prevent spread of coronavirus as March break looms Here’s what you will need to survive a 14-day coronavirus home quarantine While the use of a mask alone is “insufficient” to provide the adequate level of protection, the WHO says they can be “effective” when used in combination with frequent hand cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. The WHO has a proper and improper medical mask protocol for you to follow. If you don’t know what you’re doing, it could be as though you haven’t been wearing a mask at all. “Wearing medical masks when not indicated may cause unnecessary cost, procurement burden and create a false sense of security that can lead to neglecting other essential measures such as hand hygiene practices,” the WHO warns. “Furthermore, using a mask incorrectly may hamper its effectiveness to reduce the risk of transmission.” STATE OF THE SPREAD Based on current information, the WHO suggests the route of human-to-human transmission of COVID-19 is through respiratory droplets or contact. Anyone within one metre of someone with respiratory symptoms such as sneezing or coughing is at risk of being exposed and/or infected. The WHO says you only "need" to wear a mask if you are taking care of a person with a suspected COVID-19 infection or if you are showing symptoms. PROPER MASK PROTOCOL If medical masks are worn, appropriate use and disposal is essential to ensure they are effective in avoiding any increase in risk of transmission. Here’s what the WHO wants you to keep in mind. • Avoid touching the mask while it is in use. • Remove the mask by using an appropriate technique (i.e. do not touch the front but remove the lace from behind). • Whenever you inadvertently touch a used mask, clean your hands by using an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water if visibly soiled. • Replace masks with a new clean, dry mask as soon as they become damp/humid. • Do not reuse single-use masks. • Discard single-use masks after each use and dispose of them immediately upon removal. • Cloth (i.e. cotton or gauze) masks are not recommended under any circumstance. HOW TO PUT ON, USE, OR REMOVE A MASK Okay, you or someone you know is coughing and squeezing. It’s time to mask up. It’s as simple as that, right? No. If you don’t put on or remove a mask properly, it won't help prevent the virus from spreading. Here’s what you need to do. • Before putting on a mask, clean your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. • Locate the metal strip at the top of the mask and place it over your nose bridge, secure the elastics around your ears or tie the strings behind your head. Make sure it covers your nose, mouth and chin. There should be no gaps between your face and the mask. • Avoid touching the mask while using it as it may be contaminated. If you accidentally touch the front of it while wearing the mask, clean your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. • If your mask becomes damp or humid, replace it with a new dry mask. Never reuse single-use masks and discard them into closed bins immediately after each use. • Remove the mask from behind (do not touch the front of mask); discard immediately in a closed bin; clean hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. For more information about when and how to use masks, visit who.int. Top Stories Don’t touch ‘it’: Wearing masks properly helps prevent coronavirus spread but can create ‘false sense of security,’ WHO warns News 03:55 PM by Chris Halliday Orangeville Banner Is it mask on or mask off? Chances are some of us will put on a medical mask at some point during the new coronavirus, or COVID-19, outbreak. If we do, it will most likely be because we’re displaying or caring for someone showing symptoms of coronavirus such as fever, cough, squeeze or difficulty breathing. TO START: You’ve heard it repeatedly. A medical mask is not required for members of the public who don’t have respiratory symptoms. There is no evidence available on its usefulness to protect non-sick persons. THEN AGAIN: The World Health Organization (WHO) recognizes wearing a medical mask is “one” of the prevention measures to limit spread of certain respiratory diseases, including COVID-19, in affected areas. Related Content What can I do? Explaining the seemingly-unstoppable coronavirus and its impact on Ontario residents 'Top priority': Pearson Airport taking extra precautions to prevent spread of coronavirus as March break looms Here’s what you will need to survive a 14-day coronavirus home quarantine While the use of a mask alone is “insufficient” to provide the adequate level of protection, the WHO says they can be “effective” when used in combination with frequent hand cleaning with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. The WHO has a proper and improper medical mask protocol for you to follow. If you don’t know what you’re doing, it could be as though you haven’t been wearing a mask at all. “Wearing medical masks when not indicated may cause unnecessary cost, procurement burden and create a false sense of security that can lead to neglecting other essential measures such as hand hygiene practices,” the WHO warns. “Furthermore, using a mask incorrectly may hamper its effectiveness to reduce the risk of transmission.” STATE OF THE SPREAD Based on current information, the WHO suggests the route of human-to-human transmission of COVID-19 is through respiratory droplets or contact. Anyone within one metre of someone with respiratory symptoms such as sneezing or coughing is at risk of being exposed and/or infected. The WHO says you only "need" to wear a mask if you are taking care of a person with a suspected COVID-19 infection or if you are showing symptoms. PROPER MASK PROTOCOL If medical masks are worn, appropriate use and disposal is essential to ensure they are effective in avoiding any increase in risk of transmission. Here’s what the WHO wants you to keep in mind. • Avoid touching the mask while it is in use. • Remove the mask by using an appropriate technique (i.e. do not touch the front but remove the lace from behind). • Whenever you inadvertently touch a used mask, clean your hands by using an alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water if visibly soiled. • Replace masks with a new clean, dry mask as soon as they become damp/humid. • Do not reuse single-use masks. • Discard single-use masks after each use and dispose of them immediately upon removal. • Cloth (i.e. cotton or gauze) masks are not recommended under any circumstance. HOW TO PUT ON, USE, OR REMOVE A MASK Okay, you or someone you know is coughing and squeezing. It’s time to mask up. It’s as simple as that, right? No. If you don’t put on or remove a mask properly, it won't help prevent the virus from spreading. Here’s what you need to do. • Before putting on a mask, clean your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. • Locate the metal strip at the top of the mask and place it over your nose bridge, secure the elastics around your ears or tie the strings behind your head. Make sure it covers your nose, mouth and chin. There should be no gaps between your face and the mask. • Avoid touching the mask while using it as it may be contaminated. If you accidentally touch the front of it while wearing the mask, clean your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. • If your mask becomes damp or humid, replace it with a new dry mask. Never reuse single-use masks and discard them into closed bins immediately after each use. • Remove the mask from behind (do not touch the front of mask); discard immediately in a closed bin; clean hands with alcohol-based hand rub or soap and water. For more information about when and how to use masks, visit who.int. Top Stories More News More News