Famous Americans in History Coloring Pages - interactive coloring book pages and reading activities for kids - Historic Events Close Note: You will only see this box once. We would like to invite you to sign up for the completely free Apples4theteacher.com Newsletter! Subscribers are automatically registered to receive free teaching resources including lesson plan ideas, printables and more. Stay informed of all our new resources as they're developed...we have some exciting features coming in 2009! P.S.. To officially become a newsletter subscriber, be sure to confirm your subscription by responding to the email we send you. Puzzles Color Holiday Fun Shop   A Fun Educational Website for Teachers and Kids   January 16, 2009 Arts Languages Literacy Math Science Soc Studies Articles Parents Teachers Featured Fundraising Kits Free Cell Phone Deals National Bird Day Martin Luther King Day Chinese New Year 100 Days of School   Fun Elementary, Preschool and Toddler Coloring Pictures & Reading Activities Interactive Famous Americans in History coloring book pages for kids     Home > Creative Arts Games > Coloring Pages > Famous Americans in History and Historic Events Apples4theteacher Famous Americans in History coloring pages make great mouse practice activities for toddlers, preschool, and elementary children. They can also be used with beginning readers. If children are unable to read the sentence that goes with the coloring page, have them click on each word to hear the sentence. This activity reinforces reading skills. Most Famous Americans in History coloring pages come with a selection of sentences. Check out our literacy ideas on how to use our coloring page readers. Our Famous Americans coloring pages are literacy builders, too! All of our Famous Americans coloring page readers print crisp and clean. To print your Famous Americans coloring page reader, follow the directions on the specific page you want to print by clicking on the printer icon that says "Full Page Print." Paul Revere - picture only - no sentence. Declaration of Independence - picture only - no sentence. Ben Franklin - picture only - no sentence. Betsy Ross - picture only - no sentence. Martin Luther King, Jr. - picture only - no sentence. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. - picture only - no sentence.   Email this page to a friend   Free Fundraising Kits! Freebies & Free Newsletter! Newsletter subscribers are automatically registered to receive free teaching resources including lesson plan ideas and printables. Drawings are held for gently used books. Holidays and Themes January Games & Activities Happy New Year National Bird Day Chinese New Year Martin Luther King Jr. Day 100th Day of School     February Games & Activities 100 Days of School Dental Health Month Black History Month Groundhog's Day Lincoln's Birthday Valentines Day Presidents Day Washington's Birthday     Sample Thematic Games & Teaching Ideas - Letters of the Alphabet Games - The 100th day of School Activities - Summer - Fall - Winter - Spring - Presidents - Read Across America - Dr. Seuss's Birthday - Native American Study ADD, ADHD, Literacy, ESL, Special Ed, Bilingual Ed, Gifted, Health Ed, Early Childhood Education      Home Calendar Weblinks Search About Us Contact Newsletter Getting Started Interactive Coloring TOS - Privacy Policy Sitemap Online Games and Resources for Toddlers, Preschoolers, Kindergarten, and Elementary Students Kid Safe Teacher Created Primary Website with Homeschooling Activities First Grade, Second Grade, Third Grade, Fourth Grade, Fifth Grade and Sixth Grade Materials Copyright ©1999-2008 Cool Web Design and Search Engine Optimization by Webstantaneous Web Marketing Design Studio, LLC A Chandler , Arizona Web Design and Web Marketing Company login