Arkansas spa getaway - Hot Springs Arkansas spas - Little Rock, Eureka Spring
 Some features on this site require Flash. Click here to download the Flash Player Garden Rose Spa, Hot Springs Need Help: Arkansas.com en Español Site Map Arkansas.com Home Main Site Navigation Things To Do Overview 101 Free Things To Do Anniversaries Arkansas Diamond Mine Arts & Crafts Arts & Entertainment Attractions Caves & Caverns Clinton Presidential Library Dining Dinner Riverboat Cruises Dinner Theaters Famous Arkansans Fall Foliage Festivals & Events Golf History & Heritage Horse, Dog, Auto Racing Interactive Fun Music and Entertainment Nightlife Quartz Crystals in Arkansas Rodeos Sample Itineraries Scenic Drives See Arkansas First Shopping Southern Cuisine Spas Spring Color Tours Trail of Holiday Lights Uniquely Arkansas Waterfalls Weddings Wineries & Micro Breweries Places to Stay Overview Bed & Breakfasts Book A Room Online Cabins Camping/RVs Cottages Dude Ranches Group Lodging Hot Deals & Packages Hotels / Motels Houseboats Lodges & Resorts Pet Friendly Rentals/Condos Spas Overview Spa Hot Deals & Packages Golf Overview Golf Hot Deals & Packages Outdoors Overview Adventure State Parks ATVs/ORVs Bird Watching Canoeing/Rafting/Kayaking Camping Crystals Cycling/Road Racing Diamonds Fishing Freewheeling Geocaching Golf Hiking Hunting Hot Deals & Packages Marinas/Boat Docks/Fishing Guide Services Motorcycling Mountain Biking Rock Climbing Sailing Watersports Parks Overview Arkansas State Parks Map Campgrounds National & Federal Parks National Forest State Parks in Arkansas Travel Tools Overview Accessibility Information Arkansas Events Calendar Arkansas Transportation Arkansas Welcome Centers Book A Room Online Free Trip Planner Free Vacation Kit Governor Helpful Links Hot Deals & Vacation Packages Interactive Fun Litter Law Maps Media Contacts Mobile Friendly Sample Itineraries Scrapbook Song of Arkansas Sparta Aquifer Recovery Study Tourism Contacts Tourism Development Travel Blog Weather In Arkansas Site Search Keywords Secondary Navigation Kids & Families Moving to Arkansas Virtual Tour Photos Group Travel Brochures Enews Sign Up Media Arkansas Travel Blog RSS Feeds Podcasts Maps Event Calendar Print This Page E-Mail to a Friend +A -A Arkansas Spa Getaway Just imagine. Languishing in a tub of hot water, soothing away the "wearies" of the world. Then the trained hands of a masseuse ply away the knots and kinks that come with a modern lifestyle. Photo Facts A spa experience in The Natural State Sound extravagant? It can be, but you don't have to pay a fortune to experience the relaxation and luxury of an Arkansas spa getaway. Check out one of the spas in Arkansas, and you'll find both the bargain and the experience of a lifetime. Hot Springs National Park is the logical place to start since the hot waters have been rejuvenating travelers since the days of DeSoto and his explorers. Hot Springs Arkansas spas run the gamut from the historic Buckstaff Bathhouse on Bathhouse Row and the Arlington Hotel to the modern facilities at the Embassy Suites, The Austin and Mountain Harbor Resort. Can't spend a weekend? Little Rock Arkansas spas include a variety of day spas, which offer most of the popular spa treatments, such as body waxing, massage, exfoliation, body mud, anti-cellulite wraps, makeup, facials, pedicures, manicures and more. Eureka Springs in Northwest Arkansas has spa origins as well. The waters here, too, were believed to have medicinal powers, and the sick came in droves seeking miracle cures. Though the springs no longer flow as freely, people still visit Eureka Springs Arkansas spas, looking for healing from the stress of everyday life. Historic hostelries such as the Crescent Hotel and Palace Bathhouse provide Arkansas spa getaways along with several businesses offering day spa options. Did you know? Eureka Springs – Eureka Springs, AR: With a wonderful 1950s lodge and two peaceful ponds, this is a great place for weddings and anniversaries...the owner will even put together special packages for the occasion. Sweet spot! Learn More ... ARKANSAS DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & TOURISM 1 Capitol Mall - Little Rock, Arkansas 72201 (501) 682-7777 (V/TT) Parks and Tourism Contact Information / Survey / Governor / Employment / Links / Linking Policy Economic Reports / Privacy Policy / Arkansas Industry Insiders / Site Map ©Copyright 2009 Arkansas Department of Parks & Tourism. All rights reserved. Web Design & Internet Marketing by Aristotle. The Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism is in compliance with the Freedom of Information, Ar. Code Ann., § 25-19-101 et seq.