COVID-19: Montefiore Nyack Hospital Starts Convalescent Plasma Therapy For Patients | North Rockland Daily Voice North Rockland Interactive local COVID-19 tracker Subscribe Contact Us Get News In Your Inbox Daily Subscribe North Rockland Daily Voice serves Garnerville, Grassy Point, Stony Point, Thiells, Tomkins Cove, Village of Haverstraw & West Haverstraw in Haverstraw Town See nearby towns Return to your home site Search Menu Wednesday, apr 15 41° Search Nearby Search Get News In Your Inbox Daily Subscribe Get the news you need to know on the go. Settings Settings Done Home Site Edit Notification Push Notifications Notification Sound Notification permissions are disabled. Enable them in your device's settings. Home News Lifestyle Business Schools Police & Fire Obituaries Sports More Politics Events Weather Politics Events Weather Real Estate Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Comment Policy © 2020 Cantata Media North Rockland Daily Voice serves Garnerville, Grassy Point, Stony Point, Thiells, Tomkins Cove, Village of Haverstraw & West Haverstraw in Haverstraw Town Nearby Towns Orangetown serves Blauvelt, Grand View-on-Hudson, Orangeburg, Palisades, Pearl River, Piermont, South Nyack, Sparkill & Tappan Clarkstown serves Bardonia, Congers, Nanuet, New City, Upper Nyack, Valley Cottage & West Nyack Ramapo serves Airmont, Chestnut Ridge, Hillburn, Hillcrest, Kaser, Monsey, Montebello, Mount Ivy, New Hempstead, New Square, Pomona, Sloatsburg, Spring Valley, Suffern, Tallman, Viola & Wesley Hills Breaking News: COVID-19: Request To Close Rockland State Parks Gets Go-Ahead News COVID-19: Montefiore Nyack Hospital Starts Convalescent Plasma Therapy For Patients Kathy Reakes Email me Read More Stories 04/15/2020 9:30 a.m. Share this story Share Tweet Pin It Email Print 0 Comments Plasma from patients who have recovered from COVID-19 is needed to help conduct research and possibly save patients suffering from the virus. Photo Credit: Pixabay More Articles News COVID-19: Request To Close Rockland State Parks Gets Go-Ahead COVID-19: FDA, FTC Target Companies Selling Products That Cla... COVID-19 Total Cases, Deaths Per County In NY/NJ/CT: NYC Deat... comment 0 Read / Add Comments Cutting-edge research therapy in connection with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) is taking place close to home as area doctors announce they are taking part in a plasma therapy study organized by the Mayo Clinic. Doctors at Montefiore Nyack Hospital announced on Tuesday,  April 14, they have given the first dose of convalescent plasma therapy via transfusion to a COVID-19 patient in the ICU. A team led by Dr. Michal Tracz, with Highland Medical, Rockland Renal Associates and Dr. Vandana Hoon, the director of the Department of Pathology at the hospital, is working on the plasma program as a part of a national, FDA-approved research study organized by the Mayo Clinic involving dozens of hospitals across the nation. During the procedure, the patient was infused with the plasma from a person who has recovered from the infection. Tracz said the hope is that the antibodies in the plasma will boost the infected patient’s immune system to help fight the virus. More patients are expected to receive treatment soon. The use of convalescent plasma has been used to treat illness as far back as the Spanish flu in 1918. It has also been used on patients with illnesses, including polio, measles, and SARS, hospital officials said. Early data suggests it could be effective in treating patients with severe cases of COVID-19, Tracz said. The success of the program hinges on available supply, and to help, a call has bee put for those who have recovered from COVID-19, to consider donating their plasma. The New York Blood Center coordinates the process, and the criteria for donation include a documented positive test for COVID-19 and a time frame of two weeks from the last symptom. A second test may sometimes be needed, but not usually. The hospital is encouraging anyone interested to register as a plasma donor with the New York Blood Center at https://www.nybc.org/donate-blood/convalescent-plasma-covid-19-donor-request-form/ . You must have documentation of a positive COVID-19 result. You can upload it with the form, or provide it when being scheduled. “One COVID convalescent plasma donation can save a life of up to three people and until we develop effective drugs or vaccines, this may be our best hope of fighting COVID-19 in our community,” Tracz said. Click here to sign up for Daily Voice's free daily emails and news alerts. Share this story Share this story Share Tweet Pin It Email comment 0 Read / Add Comment Follow Kathy Reakes on Linkedin From Our Content Partner Good Samaritan Hospital Bon Secours Medical Group Opens New Medical Practice In Orang... Corks & Forks Event Benefits New Caregiver Program At Good Sa... Good Samaritan Hospital Opens New Esophageal And Reflux Center See More Articles from Good Samaritan Hospital Welcome to North Rockland Daily Voice! Serves Garnerville, Grassy Point, Stony Point, Thiells, Tomkins Cove, Village of Haverstraw & West Haverstraw in Haverstraw Town Hi! You've read our articles so we know you like our reporting. To keep reading please join our mailing list. I'll do it later Get important news about your town as it happens. Get News In Your Inbox Daily Subscribe