Ten Tips on Long-Term Care Insurance Request Long-Term Care Quote Online Now » Home LTCtree Library What is LTC? What's covered? What are the chances? Top 10 causes How to Qualify Benefit Triggers FrontLine Video Policy Benefits Policy Features Premium Discounts Riders and Benefits Inflation Protection Buying Tips Money Savings Tips Choosing a Compnay 10 Tips Factors that effect cost Why buy? Tax Deductibility LTCtree University LTC Stats Facts and Myths Alzheimer's and LTC FAQ LTC 101 Class Blog Request a Quote Home Ten Tips on Long-Term Care Insurance Written by Drew Nichols    ...from the NAIC - the National Association of Insurance Commissioners... Consumers should Investigate long-term care coverage if you don't want to rely on others to support you.  Who does?  Another reason to look is if you want flexibility in choosing the type of long-term care services. Long-term care insurance is definitely NOT for everyone. For example, if you are currently receiving Social Security or expect to have minimal or no retirement savings or retirement income, odd are that you will likely qualify for state aid such as Medicaid and in many cases should not purchase long-term care insurance. Research all of the individual insurance companies - primarily to see whether they have a history of raising rates for long-term care coverage.  It's a good idea to also check with your state insurance department to learn how your state regulates rate increases.  We are happy to explain this as well. Check with your financial adviser or accountant for guidance on whether long-term care insurance is appropriate for your specific financial situation. If long-term care insurance is for you, allow us at LTCtree to shop around for the most appropriate coverage at the best price.  We encourage you to request our quote package and then compare with other companies. Make sure you understand what a long-term care insurance policy covers and just as importantly, what it doesn't. Ask lots of questions and also make sure the company is reputable and licensed to sell insurance in your state. Pre-existing conditions are considered to be conditions that you have before you apply for the insurance coverage.  Such conditions can and may be excluded from coverage. In addition, for some policies, age 60 is a trigger for a rate increase. Thus, it may be beneficial to purchase your policy before your late 50's.  The fact is, the younger you are when you buy, the lower your premiums will be. Don't rely on Medicare or Medicaid to cover your long-term care needs because Medicare will usually pay for a small percentage of nursing home costs. Medicaid pays only for institutional long-term care services - not home care in most cases - and it only pays for nursing homes if you meet federal poverty guidelines.  Worse, the choice of care facilities can be very limited - perhaps in a far away city! Keep in mind that tax breaks are available for qualified long-term care insurance policy premiums. The benefit payments received under such policies are tax-free.  What Makes Tax Qualified Long Term Care Insurance? Unless you are requesting quotes, be careful about responding to LTC marketing.  Do not divulge your personal financial or medical information over the phone unless you have solicited a call from a reputable comapny.  Information such as your social security number, your health status, your Medicare status or your private insurance coverage should remain private. Don't be fooled by mailings about long-term care insurance that appear to be from an official government source. Be skeptical of advertising that suggests that Medicare is associated with a long-term care policy. Medicare does not endorse nor sell long-term care insurance.   Request FREE Quotes Below: The smart and easy way to shop for Long-Term Care Insurance To receive your free policy comparisons and quotes, please complete this simple, secure form below, and then sit back and relax.  We will shop the entire market of companies and provide you with exact quotes.  No more moving from company to company in search of the best product to fit your needs because we work with all the major Long Term Care Insurance companies and have no preference to any one of them. Your customized analysis includes: A review of each company's financial-stability ratings, claims experience, and size. A thorough, side-by-side comparison of each company's policy features. You'll be surprised in some of the differences! Price comparisons customized to suit your specific needs from top carriers including MetLife, Genworth (GE), Allianz, New York Life, MassMutual, Mutual of Omaha, and Prudential Financial and more. Carriers quoted will depend on your state. » Click here to get quotes. Long Term Care Insurance News Are you still going to "self insure" your long term care risk Long term care insurance in action Long Term Care Reviews & Choices A new Star Ratings service for nursing homes Great read on Long Term Care Insurance by Kiplinger's Long Term Care Tree Privacy Polciy     Your Long Term Care Insurance plan can protect your Nest-Egg... Get your free Long Term Care Insurance Quotes Today. Online or by phone: 1.800.313.1921 External Links Make sure the long term care insurance company offering your policy on financially solid ground, when it comes time to pay your claim. AM Best  Moody's Investors Services Standard & Poor's Insurance Ratings Service   Federal Employee comparing long term care insurance at LTCFed?  Research an insurance company in your state , at the Insurance Information Institute. Review the pros and cons of women purchasing long term care insurance, at the National Center on Women and Aging. State Health Insurance Assistance Program(SHIP) is a free service that advises seniors and baby-boomers about life and health insurance questions. SHIP advisers can assist you in deciding if long-term care insurance might be a good fit for you. SHIP can also review the actual long term care insurance contract that you considering buying. United Seniors Health Council helps people research consumer health and health insurance questions. The council publishes a really in-depth newsletter and sells books on the topics of long-term care and long term care insurance.    