Long Term Care Insurance Quotes & Comparisons Request Long-Term Care Quote Online Now » Home LTCtree Library What is LTC? What's covered? What are the chances? Top 10 causes How to Qualify Benefit Triggers FrontLine Video Policy Benefits Policy Features Premium Discounts Riders and Benefits Inflation Protection Buying Tips Money Savings Tips Choosing a Compnay 10 Tips Factors that effect cost Why buy? Tax Deductibility LTCtree University LTC Stats Facts and Myths Alzheimer's and LTC FAQ LTC 101 Class Blog Request a Quote Home Long Term Care Insurance    Welcome to LTCtree, we hope you will find our consumer Long Term Care Insurance quotes, information, reviews, ratings, and company comparisons helpful in your research.  The Reality on Long Term Care Insurance New England Journal of Medicine recently reported that about 49% of people who are 65 plus will need long term care assistance before they pass away. The Wall Street Journal states that almost 50% of seniors 85 and up have Alzheimer’s or some form of dementia which is the number one cause for needing long term care.  WSJ also reports that even children are buying long term care insurance for their parents. Harvard Magazine says: People are living longer with men living 80.9 yrs and women 84.5 once they reach age 65. Modern medicine is keeping people alive longer, but most will need some form of long term care before they die. The average United States citizen is living longer because of advancement in medicine, so there is now a much higher chance that a person will need long term care insurance to provide assistance because of cognitive illnesses such as Alzheimer’s and Dementia or degenerative diseases like Diabetes, Stoke, Heart problems, Cancer, and Parkinson’s Disease at some point in their lives. Long Term Care is a service provided in a facility such as a nursing home - Assisted Living Facility or home health care when the nurse or aid will actual come into the person’s home a give care.  Long Term Care is typically not skilled care but custodial which is help with every day activities of  daily living (ADL’s) such as eating, bathing, dressing, transferring, toileting, and maintain continence.  If you have Long Term Care Insurance most or all of your LTC costs can be paid, depending on which policy you buy. The high average annual cost to receive long term care is the problem: Nursing Home - $75,345 Home Care - $28,435 Assisted Living Facility - $36,829 In May 2007, according to an official at Genworth Financial's Long Term Care Insurance Review unit in Richmond, Virginia. These high care costs can wipe out your retirement savings in no time.  The average stay in a nursing home is 2.9 years and the average cost of nursing home care is now $218,500 per person or $437,001 for a married couple in today's dollars.  Where will you get that kind of money?  Who knows how much inflation will increase medical costs in the future because of the large number of Baby Boomers, but if you plan ahead today it will be just one less thing you have to worry when you curl up in bed at night.  Consider Long Term Care Insurance.  What if you could protect yourself from possibly the greatest financial risk you will face in your retirement years?  Imagine how relaxed you will then feel knowing that you planned ahead and are protected.    Get your Long Term Care Insurance quotes below. Long Term Care Insurance will help: Prevent being a burden on your kids and family. It will also Protect your Nest-Egg (Savings) (IRA, 401K, CD’s, Stocks) Ensure quality care if you do need help because private pay typically gets better treatment than Medicaid (The U.S. welfare health system). Incidentally, having LTCI prevents you from running out of money and ending up on welfare. Maintain your independence and dignity by receiving home health care in your own home where you are most comfortable. Most importantly, long term care insurance will protect your quality of life as well as the stress levels for the people around you.  "Relax, you've got a plan."   Request FREE Quotes Below: The smart and easy way to shop for Long-Term Care Insurance To receive your free policy comparisons and quotes, please complete this simple, secure form below, and then sit back and relax.  We will shop the entire market of companies and provide you with exact quotes.  No more moving from company to company in search of the best product to fit your needs because we work with all the major Long Term Care Insurance companies and have no preference to any one of them. Your customized analysis includes: A review of each company's financial-stability ratings, claims experience, and size. A thorough, side-by-side comparison of each company's policy features. You'll be surprised in some of the differences! Price comparisons customized to suit your specific needs from top carriers including MetLife, Genworth (GE), Allianz, New York Life, MassMutual, Mutual of Omaha, and Prudential Financial and more. Carriers quoted will depend on your state. » Click here to get quotes. Long Term Care Insurance News Are you still going to "self insure" your long term care risk Long term care insurance in action Long Term Care Reviews & Choices A new Star Ratings service for nursing homes Great read on Long Term Care Insurance by Kiplinger's Long Term Care Tree Privacy Polciy     Your Long Term Care Insurance plan can protect your Nest-Egg... Get your free Long Term Care Insurance Quotes Today. Online or by phone: 1.800.313.1921 Long Term Care Insurance Tree (LTCtree) is located at: 571 Hammond Drive Atlanta, GA 30328 We have sales offices throughout the United States. External Links Make sure the long term care insurance company offering your policy on financially solid ground, when it comes time to pay your claim. AM Best  Moody's Investors Services Standard & Poor's Insurance Ratings Service   Federal Employee comparing long term care insurance at LTCFed?  Research an insurance company in your state , at the Insurance Information Institute. Review the pros and cons of women purchasing long term care insurance, at the National Center on Women and Aging. State Health Insurance Assistance Program(SHIP) is a free service that advises seniors and baby-boomers about life and health insurance questions. SHIP advisers can assist you in deciding if long-term care insurance might be a good fit for you. SHIP can also review the actual long term care insurance contract that you considering buying. United Seniors Health Council helps people research consumer health and health insurance questions. The council publishes a really in-depth newsletter and sells books on the topics of long-term care and long term care insurance.     What is Long Term Care Insurance?Many people think that long term care is covered by health insurance plans or by the government.  Medicare only pays about 5% of long term care costs, with the other 95% paid either privately or by Medicaid (the health program for America's needy).  Long Term Care Insurance is designed to help Americans plan for their future long term care needs.