Chesapeake Bay Reserve, Maryland Chesapeake Bay Reserve, Maryland Otter Point Creek One of the last remaining freshwater tidal marshes in the upper Chesapeake Bay is found in the Otter Point Creek component. Its 672 acres of open water, tidal marshes, forested wetlands and upland hardwood forests are surrounded by highways, homes and commercial development. Yet, the woods, creeks and marshes are filled with plants and animals. The Anita C. Leight Estuary, the visitor and education center for the reserve, is located here and is open to the public on Saturdays (10-5) and Sundays (12-5). Hiking trails, exhibits, canoe trips, pontoon boat rides, nature hikes and children’s programs are offered. (Reservations required for all programs except hiking). The Center also supports a large volunteer corps, college interns, field studies and high school and a large variety of citizen monitoring programs. Expect to see: Bald eagles, hawks, osprey, snakes, turtles, frogs, egrets, sweet flag, cattails, spatterdock, beaver and river otter. Contact Information: Anita C. Leight Estuary Center, 700 Otter Point Road, Abdingdon MD 21009, 410-612-1688. << BACK to Components Chesapeake Bay, MD Overview Boundary Map Reserve Components Research Education Monitoring Opportunities Partners Chesapeake Bay Reserve's local Web site is www.dnr.state. md.us/ bay/cbnerr/. Learn more about the Maryland Coastal Zone Management Program List of Reserves Ace Basin, SC Apalachicola, FL Chesapeake Bay, MD Chesapeake Bay, VA Delaware Elkhorn Slough, CA Grand Bay, MS Great Bay, NH GTM, FL Hudson River, NY Jacques Cousteau, NJ Jobos Bay, PR Kachemak Bay, AK Narragansett Bay, RI North Carolina N. Inlet-Winyah, SC Old Woman Crk, OH Padilla Bay, WA Rookery Bay, FLSan Francisco, CA Sapelo Island, GA South Slough, OR Tijuana River, CA Waquoit Bay, MA Weeks Bay, AL Wells, ME Revised September 03, 2003 by NERRS Webmaster Ocean and Coastal Resource Management | Ocean Service | NOAA | Department of Commerce Privacy Statement | Disclaimer http://nerrs.noaa.gov/ChesapeakeBayMD/Components1.html