Chesapeake Bay Reserve, Maryland Chesapeake Bay Reserve, Maryland Research Research, investigation and exploration drive the Maryland Reserve. A variety of research projects are on going at the three components. Submerged Aquatic Vegetation: Methods to improve SAV restoration are being tested, especially species diversity. Turtles: Research on various species of turtles is being conducted at the Jug Bay Wetlands Sanctuary. One study fits female box turtles with transmitters to track their movements. These studies show that box turtles utilize wetlands, something not previously documented. Wild Rice: Optimal restoration techniques are being identified at Jug Bay to restore and protect Wild rice. The recent loss of wild rice is probably attributed to an increase in the resident Canada goose population. Ways to increase seed production and methods to prevent grazing by geese are proving successful and the wild rice is returning. The reserve supports Graduate Research Fellows from NOAA. Also, several projects funded through the Cooperative Institute for Coastal Estuarine Environmental Technology have been conducted in the reserve. Chesapeake Bay, MD Overview Boundary Map Reserve Components Research Education Monitoring Opportunities Partners Chesapeake Bay Reserve's local Web site is www.dnr.state. md.us/ bay/cbnerr/. Learn more about the Maryland Coastal Zone Management Program List of Reserves Ace Basin, SC Apalachicola, FL Chesapeake Bay, MD Chesapeake Bay, VA Delaware Elkhorn Slough, CA Grand Bay, MS Great Bay, NH GTM, FL Hudson River, NY Jacques Cousteau, NJ Jobos Bay, PR Kachemak Bay, AK Narragansett Bay, RI North Carolina N. Inlet-Winyah, SC Old Woman Crk, OH Padilla Bay, WA Rookery Bay, FLSan Francisco, CA Sapelo Island, GA South Slough, OR Tijuana River, CA Waquoit Bay, MA Weeks Bay, AL Wells, ME Revised September 03, 2003 by NERRS Webmaster Ocean and Coastal Resource Management | Ocean Service | NOAA | Department of Commerce Privacy Statement | Disclaimer http://nerrs.noaa.gov/ChesapeakeBayMD/Research.html