IA DNR: DNR Encourages Iowans to be Green This Season About the DNR      DNR News      Contact Us      Site Map      DNR Home A-Z Topic Index   Choose a DNR Program Choose a Program... Air Quality All-Terrain Vehicle Program AmeriCorps Avian Influenza Animal Feeding Operations Contaminated Sites Drinking Water Energy Engineering Bureau Environmental Reviews Field Services Fish & Fishing State Forests/Forestry Geology Help Us Stop Hunger (HUSH) Lake Restoration Law Enforcement Legal Services Realty Services REAP Shooting Sports Sovereign Lands State Parks State Preserves Threatened and Endangered Total Maximum Daily Load Underground Storage Tanks Volunteer Opportunities Waste Management Wastewater Construction Water Monitoring Water Security Watershed Improvement Water Quality Wildlife Diversity Outdoor Recreation Beach Monitoring Fishing / Fishing Report Hunting & Wildlife Non-Game Wildlife State Parks / Preserves State Forests / Forestry Trails & Paddling Licenses Law Enforcement Safety Education / Courses   Environmental Services Air Related Issues Energy Related Issues Land Related Issues Water Related Issues Field Offices/Services Chemical Spill Reporting   DNR Media / Extras DNR Online Videos DNR On The Radio Free Desktop Wallpaper   Additional Information Avian Influenza Information Business Regulatory Assistance Construction Bid Lettings Commissions and Boards Camps and Workshops DNR Grants DNR Kids' Pages DNR Online Databases DNR Rules Education Employment Mapping (GIS Interactive) Operator Certification Publications Records Center Requests for Proposals Springbrook Conservation Education Center Sustainable Funding Watershed Quality Planning Task Force Volunteer Opportunities   DNR News > Recent Releases DNR Encourages Iowans to be Green This Season Posted: December 24, 2008 DES MOINES As the holidays wrap up, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources (DNR) would like to share some simple green tips for the new year. From reusing gift packaging to recycling used electronics there are many easy ways to keep the environment a priority this season. Here are a few tips: Buy local. Locally made gifts have a lower carbon footprint due to reduced gasoline use and air pollution associated with transportation. Recycle your gift wrap and greeting cards. Recycling is simple to do but can be easily neglected during the holiday excitement. Have a designated bin for recyclables right next to your trash can so recycling is just as easy as throwing away garbage. Reuse your packaging. Save boxes, ribbons and gift bags that can be used again for another holiday. Take your own reusable shopping bags. When shopping during the holiday season, avoid the hassle of accumulating single-use bags by bringing your own reusable bags. For more tips and resources go to www.iowadnr.gov/waste/greenholiday.html This season, don forget the most significant gift of all environmental sustainability for Iowa.   State of Iowa Home | DNR Home | Site Policy    webmaster@dnr.iowa.gov © Iowa Department of Natural Resources  