Family Filmgoer reviews ‘Last Witch Hunter,’ ‘Jem and the Holograms’
Movies
10 and older
Aubrey Peeples and Juliette Lewis in “Jem and the Holograms.” (Universal Pictures)
Jem and the Holograms (PG)
Diehard fans of the animated 1980s TV series about an empowered girl band will find their childhood fave more than a little transformed in this goofy, tacky, live-action origin story. With a tweeny-pop soundtrack, nearly curse-free dialogue and a chaste love interest, the movie is fine for kids 10 and older and probably okay for many 8-to-9-year-olds. Tweens will be entertained. Jerrica (Aubrey Peeples), a shy singer/songwriter, lives in a small town with her guardian, Aunt Bailey (Molly Ringwald), younger sister Kimber and foster sisters Shana and Aja. Struggling as a teen with her sense of self, Jerrica videos herself as an alter ego, Jem, doing a song. She decides not to post it online, but Kimber does anyway. It goes viral, inspiring all sorts of kids to tell “Jem” how her song helped them with insecurities and bullying. A big-time producer, Erica Raymond (Juliette Lewis), seeks Jem out and agrees to let her sisters be her band. The girls get makeovers and a live debut with Erica’s handsome son, Rio (Ryan Guzman), as their minder. Meanwhile, a cute hologram-projecting robot named Synergy, invented by Jerrica and Kimber’s late dad, boots itself up and gives the girls ideas and important messages. (118 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: The dialogue is very tame, with only a couple of mildly rude expressions and a jokey reference to juvenile detention. There is chaste sexual tension between Jerrica/Jem and Rio, and we see Rio in a towel. Some of the kids who message Jerrica/Jem online talk about being bullied.
Jack Black as R.L. Stine in “Goosebumps.” (Hopper Stone, SMPSP/SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT)
Goosebumps (PG)
An array of monsters from R.L. Stine’s scary-funny “Goosebumps” books comes to life in this mildly imaginative trifle, with Stine himself (played by Jack Black) as a character, and teen romance as the backdrop. Kids 10 and older will likely be amused, but for some younger viewers, the sight of those monsters on a big screen may be too much: The Werewolf of Fever Swamp, the nasty garden gnomes, the giant praying mantis and Slappy the evil ventriloquist’s dummy all bare tooth and claw, chase the teen protagonists and threaten the town. Zach has recently lost his dad. He and his mom move to a Delaware town where she’ll be the vice principal at his new school. Hannah, the cute girl next door, befriends Zach, although her secretive dad (Black) warns him off. Overhearing a scream in Hannah’s house, Zach and his nerdy pal, Champ, go to investigate. Hannah’s fine, but they find a bookcase full of original, locked R.L. Stine manuscripts. One gets opened, out pops the Abominable Snowman of Pasadena and we’re off. (98 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: Parents will need to know their kids’ limits, even those 10 and older. Many are already creeped out by clowns and ventriloquist dummies. To see so many monsters on the screen may overwhelm them. There are also humans-vs.-monster battles.
Pan (PG)
Every moment in this World War II-era back story for Peter Pan and Captain Hook may not be a gem, but kids 10 and older will happily follow it. (Although J.M. Barrie may be spinning in his grave.) The movie is longish and occasionally tangles the tale or groans under the digital effects. Yet flaws and all, “Pan” is clever, funny, and emotionally and visually rewarding. In the prologue, a mother leaves a baby boy on the steps of a London orphanage. Twelve years later, with the Blitz raging, the orphan Peter learns that a nasty nun hid a note his mother left with him. Worse, he discovers that pirates on a flying ship have been snatching boys in the night, and he’s caught in the next batch as the ship zips on to Neverland. Blackbeard (Hugh Jackman), a foppish pirate, rules there, forcing boys to dig for rocks made of fairy dust. He senses Peter is special and fears him. Peter meets a grown-up orphan, the dashing Hook. Joining with Tiger Lily and her native tribe, they take on Blackbeard. (111 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: The fight scenes are mostly comical and fantastical, but occasionally they get rough. The portrayal of the nasty nuns is quite dark, including the implication that the nuns smack the boys’ hands with leather belts.
PG-13
Vin Diesel in “The Last Witch Hunter.” (Scott Garfield/Lionsgate)
The Last Witch Hunter
So thuddingly bad that it’s an accidental comedy, this Dungeons & Dragons and “Game of Thrones”-inspired fantasy may appeal to younger teens who like the genre and aren’t too offended by bad dialogue. In a prologue set in the early Middle Ages, a band of hunters chases down the witch queen. Dying, she curses her killer, Kaulder (Vin Diesel), with immortality. Zoom to the present and Kaulder, now a hip city dude in a leather coat, still hunts evil witches and lets good ones live freely, as long as they behave. He has partnered through the ages with priests called Dolans. His latest comrade, Dolan 36th (Michael Caine), dies mysteriously. With little help from the inept Dolan 37th (Elijah Wood), Kaulder sets out to find who killed his friend. A “dream walker” witch named Chloe joins him in the hunt. (106 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: Thickly overlaid with digital effects, the violence really isn’t bloody, though some images are rather nightmarish. Characters get run through with flaming swords, daggers, tree branches, and even rebar. There is also gunplay. Note to phobics: Swarms of slithery things may look like tree roots, but behave like snakes. And swarms of flying bits that look like bugs actually do the witch queen’s bidding. The script includes little profanity, but one use of the B-word.
Bridge of Spies
Steven Spielberg has delivered a crackerjack fact-based Cold War saga, thick with atmosphere and tension. It will especially enthrall history-loving teens, breathing life into their textbook knowledge of the era. Even better, “Bridge of Spies” celebrates a hero who values honor and the law. It begins in 1957, when Soviet spy Rudolf Abel (Mark Rylance) is captured by the FBI in New York. The U.S. government approaches a big law firm to provide an attorney to defend Abel, to show he can get a fair trial. James B. Donovan (Tom Hanks), an insurance claims lawyer, gets the high-profile job — plus dirty looks from citizens on his subway ride to work. Abel is convicted, but Donovan persuades the judge to give him prison time, not a death sentence, in case the United States needs to trade him. Sure enough, in 1960, an American spy plane gets shot down and its pilot, Francis Gary Powers, is taken prisoner by the Soviets. Donovan goes to East Berlin under CIA auspices to negotiate an exchange. (143 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: The most harrowing moments depict East Berliners shot as they try to climb over the Berlin Wall, and Powers struggling to eject as his plane falls. Scenes of Powers’s captivity show him treated roughly. Donovan’s daughter is endangered when someone shoots at their house. The script includes a couple uses of the F-word.
R
Cate Blanchett as Mary Mapes in “Truth.” (Lisa Tomasetti/Sony Pictures Classics)
Truth
Well made, though far from neutral, “Truth” recounts the 2004 debacle at CBS News involving veteran anchor/reporter Dan Rather and producer Mary Mapes. Teenage wannabe journalists could get caught up in the film’s deadline-induced tension and learn that real investigative reporting has high stakes. Mapes (Cate Blanchett) followed a tip alleging that President George W. Bush, then running for re-election, went AWOL from the Texas Air National Guard during the Vietnam War. Mapes, her investigative team and Rather (Robert Redford) put together a deeply researched, yet flawed piece for “60 Minutes II.” As soon as it aired, questions arose about the authenticity of documents they’d obtained. Based on Mapes’s book, “Truth and Duty: The Press, The President, and The Privilege of Power,” the film argues that Mapes and Rather, et al., were hung out to dry by the cold-eyed suits at CBS News. (121 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: The script includes several F-words and S-words. Mapes views vicious slurs and threats aimed at her on the Internet. We hear that when she was a child, her father hit her for asking questions.
Horwitz is a freelance writer.
