Family Filmgoer reviews ‘Goosebumps’ and more
Movies
6 and older
Hotel Transylvania 2 (PG)
The animated 3-D adventures of a nonviolent, family-oriented Dracula and his daughter continue in this adequate sequel. The humor is as lowbrow as the 2012 original is, but the laughs are generous, and the scary/monstery stuff seems toned down enough for kids 6 and older. There are still vampires, bats, blobs and creatures at Dracula’s Hotel Transylvania, but nothing too boo-worthy. His vampire daughter, Mavis, marries her human boyfriend, Jonathan, and they have a little boy, Dennis. He reaches age 4 with no sign of fangs. He may just be a “late-fanger,” Dracula hopes. Mavis and Jonathan take a vacation, leaving Dennis with his grandpa. Dracula and his buddies Frankenstein, the invisible man, the werewolf and the mummy take Dennis to a monster theme park.Dracula’s human-hating father, Vlad, poses a brief threat, but the finale is all about acceptance. (89 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: A climactic battle involves swarming bats. There is a little crude humor, with the word “boobies” used once.
10 and older
A scene from “Goosebumps,” a film based on R.L. Stine’s children’s horror stories. (Courtesy of Columbia Pictures)
Goosebumps (PG)
An array of monsters from R.L. Stine’s scary-funny “Goosebumps” books comes to life in this mildly imaginative trifle, with Stine himself (played by Jack Black) as a character, and teen romance as the backdrop. Kids 10 and older will likely be amused, but for some under-10s, the sight of those monsters on a big screen may be too much: The Werewolf of Fever Swamp, the nasty garden gnomes, the giant praying mantis and Slappy the evil ventriloquist’s dummy all bare tooth and claw, chase the teen protagonists and threaten the town. Zach has recently lost his dad. He and his mom move to a Delaware town where she’ll be the vice principal at his new school. Hannah, the cute girl next door, befriends Zach, though her secretive dad (Black) warns him off. Overhearing a scream in Hannah’s house, Zach and his nerdy pal, Champ, go to investigate. Hannah’s fine, but they find a bookcase full of original, locked R.L. Stine manuscripts. One gets opened, out pops the Abominable Snowman of Pasadena and we’re off. (98 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: Parents will need to know their kids’ limits, even those 10 and older. Many are already creeped out by clowns and ventriloquist dummies. To see so many monsters on the screen may overwhelm them. There are also humans-vs.-monster battles.
Pan (PG)
Every moment in this imagined World War II-era back story for Peter Pan and Captain Hook may not be a gem, but kids 10 and older will happily go along with it, though J.M. Barrie may be spinning in his grave. The movie is longish and occasionally tangles its tale or groans under its digital effects. Yet flaws and all, “Pan” is clever, funny, and emotionally and visually rewarding. In the prologue, a mother leaves her baby boy on the steps of a London orphanage. Twelve years later, with the Blitz raging, the orphan Peter learns that a nasty nun has hidden a letter his mother left for him. After Peter learns that, he discovers that pirates on a flying ship have been snatching boys in the night. Peter is taken next. The pirate ship zips past bombers, past the clouds, on to Neverland. Blackbeard (Hugh Jackman), a foppish pirate, rules there, forcing boys to dig for rocks made of fairy dust. He senses that Peter is special and he fears the boy. Peter meets a grown-up orphan, the dashing Hook. They join with Tiger Lily and her native tribe to fight the pirates. (111 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: The fight scenes are mostly comical and fantastical, but occasionally they get rough. The portrayal of the nasty nuns gets quite dark, including the implication that the nuns smack the boys’ hands with leather belts.
PG-13
Bridge of Spies
Steven Spielberg has delivered a crackerjack fact-based Cold War saga, thick with atmosphere and tension. It will especially enthrall history-loving teens, breathing life into their textbook knowledge of the era. Even better, “Bridge of Spies” celebrates a hero who values honor and the law. It begins in 1957, when Soviet spy Rudolf Abel (Mark Rylance) is captured by the FBI in New York. The U.S. government approaches a big law firm to provide an attorney to defend Abel, to show he can get a fair trial. James B. Donovan (Tom Hanks), an insurance claims lawyer, gets the high-profile job — plus dirty looks from citizens on his subway ride to work. Abel is convicted, but Donovan persuades the judge to give him prison time, not a death sentence, in case the United States needs to trade him. Sure enough, in 1960, an American spy plane gets shot down and its pilot, Francis Gary Powers, is taken prisoner by the Soviets. Donovan goes to East Berlin under CIA auspices to negotiate an exchange. (143 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: The most harrowing moments depict East Berliners shot as they try to climb over the Berlin Wall, and Powers struggling to eject as his plane falls. Scenes of Powers’s captivity show him treated roughly. Donovan’s daughter is endangered when someone shoots at their house. The script includes a couple uses of the F-word.
The Martian
Any teen sci-fi fans, whether they’ve read Andy Weir’s popular book or not, will get a serious bang out of Ridley Scott’s film adaptation. It’s long and not as graceful as it could be, toggling between Matt Damon’s astronaut, stranded on Mars, and the NASA folks on Earth scrambling to rescue him. Yet the film is often thrilling and never less than engrossing in its gritty detail and smart-mouth, fact-filled repartee. Damon is terrific as Mark Watney, the ingenious astronaut and botanist on a near-future NASA mission to Mars. Caught in a violent storm, he gets separated from the team. Believing him dead, the commander (Jessica Chastain) reluctantly orders her crew to abort. They escape to their orbiting ship and head toward Earth. But Watney was just unconscious. He wakes, and his survival skills kick in. He sutures his bloody wound, starts a video log, tries to contact Houston, repair equipment, grow potatoes in the astronauts’ habitat, and just get through each day. (141 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: Watney has to remove a piece of antenna that impaled him in the storm, then staple his bloody wound. Various other disasters — explosions, punctured spacesuits, tumbling equipment — unfold with frightening speed in 3-D. Watney curses a lot.
He Named Me Malala
Teens with an idealistic streak and an interest in world affairs will be impressed and moved by this documentary, which tracks Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai and her family through about 18 months of their lives using news footage, reenactments and fanciful animation. Like her educator father, Ziauddin Yousafzai, the teenage girl had become an outspoken advocate for the rights of girls to go to school in her native Pakistan. The radical Taliban, who had overrun the region where the family lived, targeted Malala. Only 15, she was shot while riding on a school bus in 2012. She recovered, and still advocates worldwide for girls’ education. The family relocated to Birmingham, England. In a disturbing but nongraphic style, Davis Guggenheim’s film reconstructs the attack and the Taliban’s reign of terror. Even better, he shows Malala with her family in sweet, funny, human moments. (88 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: Fragments of news footage show Malala in an ambulance and at the hospital after the attack, but these are intercut with reenactments and animation, so other than blood, which is disturbing, nothing else graphic is shown. The toughest scene reveals the blood-spattered interior of the school bus in which Malala and two schoolmates (who also survived) were shot. Other footage shows Taliban murder victims and school bombings.
R
Steve Jobs
Teens love their devices and are at least marginally aware of how computers, the Internet and cellphones transformed the world within a mere couple of decades. They also love a flawed hero, which is why this impressionistic portrait, partly fictionalized and partly based on the Walter Isaacson biography of Steve Jobs, will grip them. It is as dialogue-heavy and formally structured as a three-act play, but it is never less than riveting. The R rating reflects strong profanity but no obscenity. Screenwriter Aaron Sorkin paints Apple co-founder Jobs (Michael Fassbender) as an Olympian-ego’d genius marketer who also was an emotionally walled-off control freak, unwilling to give credit where it was due or even, at first, concede paternity of a daughter born out of wedlock. Sorkin imagines him backstage prior to three key launches — of the Macintosh computer in 1984; of his new company NeXT in 1985 after he was pushed out of Apple; and of the iMac in 1998, after he returned to Apple. Verbal and moral jousts erupt between Jobs and key players in his life and work. (122 minutes)
THE BOTTOM LINE: The script contains multiple F-words as well as brief, semi-crude sexual language and oblique references to promiscuity.
Horwitz is a freelance writer.
