Is California drinking bleach to fight off the coronavirus? – Daily Breeze News News Crime + Public Safety Investigative Reporting Politics Health Environment Local News Local News Harbor Area Beach Cities Torrance Carson Palos Verdes Peninsula Los Angeles Los Angeles County Sports Sports High School Sports Lakers Clippers Dodgers Angels USC UCLA College Sports Rams Chargers Kings Ducks MMA/Boxing Soccer Things to do Things to do Restaurant Reviews + Food Movies + TV Amusement Parks Music + Concerts Theater Home + Garden Travel Comics Puzzles Business Business Housing Jobs Obituaries Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Endorsements SUBSCRIBE NOW GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS. X Sign Up For Newsletters E-Edition Subscribe + Subscriber Services News News Crime + Public Safety Investigative Reporting Politics Health Environment Local News Local News Harbor Area Beach Cities Torrance Carson Palos Verdes Peninsula Los Angeles Los Angeles County Sports Sports High School Sports Lakers Clippers Dodgers Angels USC UCLA College Sports Rams Chargers Kings Ducks MMA/Boxing Soccer Things to do Things to do Restaurant Reviews + Food Movies + TV Amusement Parks Music + Concerts Theater Home + Garden Travel Comics Puzzles Business Business Housing Jobs Obituaries Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Endorsements SUBSCRIBE NOW Is California drinking bleach to fight off the… Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Trending: Kindness during coronavirus Complete coronavirus coverage LA County coronavirus map 30 years of KROQ's Kevin & Bean South Bay coronavirus takeout OpinionOpinion, Opinion ColumnistOpinion, Opinion Columnist Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the author’s interpretation of facts and data. , Represents the opinion of the author who is either a paid columnist or an unpaid guest columnist. Is California drinking bleach to fight off the coronavirus? Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) FILE – In this March 17, 2020 file photo, California Gov. Gavin Newsom gives an update to the state’s response to the coronavirus at the Governor’s Office of Emergency Services in Rancho Cordova Calif. On Tuesday, March 17, when announcing that he had put the National Guard on alert, Newsom said martial law could be used “if we feel the necessity.” Martial law is when civil laws are suspended and a military force is in charge. Newsom has asked people to not gather in large numbers and generally stay inside during the coronavirus outbreak, and so far most are obeying. (AP Photo/Rich Pedroncelli, Pool) By Susan Shelley | | PUBLISHED: March 22, 2020 at 1:24 a.m. | UPDATED: March 22, 2020 at 1:24 a.m. The Blue Ridge Poison Center at University of Virginia Health sent out a letter this past week to warn of misinformation about the spread of the coronavirus. “Drinking bleach will not prevent COVID-19 infections and could cause serious injury,” it read. Good advice. On Thursday night, Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered 40 million Californians to stay at home, except in “essential” cases, for an indefinite period of time. This goes beyond federal guidelines and beyond what any other state has imposed. In a letter to the White House, Newsom wrote, “We project that roughly 56 percent of our population — 25.5 million people — will be infected with the virus over an eight-week period.” Speaking to the public Thursday evening, the governor clarified that the number is a “worst case” scenario, if we took no action at all to stop the spread of the virus. Newsom cited projections that if 25.5 million people contracted the virus, it would leave the state short of about 19,543 hospital beds needed to treat the surge of patients. The current maximum capacity is 90,000 beds. On that basis, he ordered “non-essential” businesses to close and the entire population of California to stay home, regardless of the economic devastation this will cause to individuals, families, businesses, communities and the state of California itself, not to mention the elevated health risks from the stress of panic and isolation. The projections that led to new White House guidelines and greater restrictions at the state and local level came from a study by Imperial College London’s COVID-19 response team. The report concluded that suppression was “the preferred policy option” to curb the spread of the virus. This would require “a combination of social distancing of the entire population, home isolation of cases and household quarantine of their family members.” The report stated, “This type of intensive intervention package … will need to be maintained until a vaccine becomes available (potentially 18 months or more).” It warned that transmission of the virus would “quickly rebound if interventions are relaxed.” Lead researcher Neil Ferguson, who is advising the British government and also sent an early copy of the report to the White House last weekend, said the government had “no other option” but to impose the restrictions because of computer modeling based on new data from Italy. The model predicted that if nothing was done, 81 percent of Britons and Americans would be infected, causing the death of 510,000 people in the United Kingdom and 2.2 million people in the United States. Even with mitigation measures, Ferguson said, the model predicted that the numbers would be reduced only by half. And that explains the look on the faces of our elected officials all week. However, models are computer projections based on information and assumptions. Change the input, and you get a different projection. A model produces a number that looks exactly like a fact, but it’s a guess based on data. Remember that the earliest data on coronavirus is based on the sickest patients and the worst outcomes, before the test results from the wider population are in the mix. Newsom acknowledged Thursday that most people infected with the virus will have mild symptoms, or no symptoms at all. So if you heard that 25 million Californians will become infected with coronavirus and there aren’t enough hospital beds, and if you’re about to have a heart attack from watching TV news video of caskets in Italy, pause for a moment and let’s review: According to the latest projections, if nothing is done to stop the spread of the virus in California, roughly 25.5 million people will become infected over the next eight weeks but we need fewer than 20,000 additional hospital beds. That means tens of millions of people will recover at home or never even know they’ve been infected. Meanwhile, tens of millions of people have been frightened half to death and financially devastated on the basis of the projected worst-case scenario if nothing is done at all, which no one is suggesting. The state government is certainly right to ask for reasonable precautions and to take urgent action to ramp up the capacity of the medical system with additional hospitals, equipment and staff, no matter what it costs. But what about the rest of this response? Are we drinking bleach? No question, coronavirus is a public health threat and should be taken very seriously. It warrants immediate efforts to increase the capacity of the medical system, reasonable precautions by the general population and an all-out effort to protect vulnerable people, not simply by ordering them to stay home and fend for themselves, but accompanied by stepped-up services to provide deliveries of necessities. Instead, the governor has ordered 40 million people to stay home indefinitely except for going out to forage for food. This is the point where, if we want to live in a free country ever again, we’d better think this through. Let’s think about the difference between pre-emption and readiness. Pre-emption means taking action before something happens. Readiness means having plans, equipment and manpower available for a quick response after something happens. Pre-emption, by definition, is a response to a guess. Readiness is planning based on a guess, and a response to actual events. Pre-emption can go horribly wrong. The U.S. invasion of Iraq was based on a guess that Saddam Hussein was lying when he said he had no weapons of mass destruction. The actual damage from the pre-emptive action may well exceed the actual danger of the thing that’s being pre-empted. The damage we’re seeing right now includes the loss of constitutional rights, due process of law and all the other legal protections that make a nation free. On Friday, L.A. County Sheriff Alex Villanueva said deputies will patrol public transit to make sure everyone on it has a permissible reason to be there. The economic damage is incalculable. Even NASA’s computers can’t count that high. Related Articles California must act quickly to address the financial crisis Everyday gambles we must make during the coronavirus outbreak Hurry, November State was full of bull, as bear market was looming. Then the coronavirus hit. Coronavirus and the future of living and working in America And what about the precedent that’s being set? Will public health officials call for these “social distancing” requirements every year during flu season? Will elected officials, frightened of being blamed for annual death statistics, reserve the right to wipe out the freedom of movement and assembly that has been guaranteed to Americans by the U.S. Constitution since the 18th century? When this is over, and it will be, we will all have to think very carefully about the freedom that has been taken from us, and how we are going to take it back, or we will destroy this country for future generations. Perhaps they’ll never know what has been lost. Or maybe they’ll bitterly repeat the old joke about the surgeon who told a colleague, “The operation was a success, but the patient died.” Susan Shelley is an editorial writer and columnist for the Southern California News Group. Susan@SusanShelley.com. Twitter: @Susan_Shelley Newsroom Guidelines News Tips Contact Us Report an Error Get the latest news delivered daily! Subscribe Follow Us Facebook Twitter RSS Most Popular 10 more people at Kensington assisted living facility, in Redondo Beach, exhibit symptoms of coronavirus LA County reports 2 more coronavirus deaths, 59 more confirmed cases Can I get coronavirus from a package delivered from China? Is surfing OK during coronavirus order to keep your distance from others? How surfers are adapting 3 cases of coronavirus confirmed at Kensington assisted living facility in Redondo Beach Redondo Beach couple stranded in Peru while on Amazon cruise, thanks to coronavirus crisis Rolling Hills congregation donates supplies, money to aid seniors amid coronavirus crisis Talking parrot missing for 4 years found, now speaks Spanish These maps show food centers, other aid opportunities during the coronavirus shutdown Torrance declares state of local emergency amid coronavirus concerns 3 new coronavirus cases in Palos Verdes include high school student, golf club members Coronavirus: Here’s what you can and cannot do under LA County ‘safer at home’ order Tags:  Opinion columns Susan Shelley View Comments Join the Conversation We invite you to use our commenting platform to engage in insightful conversations about issues in our community. Although we do not pre-screen comments, we reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable to us, and to disclose any information necessary to satisfy the law, regulation, or government request. We might permanently block any user who abuses these conditions. If you see comments that you find offensive, please use the “Flag as Inappropriate” feature by hovering over the right side of the post, and pulling down on the arrow that appears. Or, contact our editors by emailing moderator@scng.com. blog comments powered by Disqus More in Opinion California must act quickly to address the financial crisis Everyday gambles we must make during the coronavirus outbreak Hurry, November State was full of bull, as bear market was looming. Then the coronavirus hit. Live Traffic Map Weather Corrections Facebook Twitter RSS About Us About Us Contact Us Southern California News Group MediaNews Group Work With Us Company Store Newspapers in Education Advertising Sections Autos Classified Jobs Local Ads Real Estate Ads Weekly Ads Worship Directory Special Sections Readers Choice How To Advertise MediaNews Group Advertising Place a Classified Ad Media Kit Political Media Kit Advertising Inquiry Advertising Contact Information How to Find Us on Other Platforms Mobile Apps Newsletter Signup e-Edition Breaking News Alerts Site Map RSS Customer Service Subscriber Services Subscribe Reader Rewards Share Your News Partners The Cannifornian PV Peninsula News The Beach Reporter Copyright © 2020 MediaNews Group, Inc. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Cookie Policy Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Southern California News Group MediaNews Group This website uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you accept our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. OK Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. Close