Remember the island in the super typhoon eye? Not a single person died, reports say.
Capital Weather Gang
Super Typhoon Meranti passed directly over the island of Itbayat in the Philippine province of Batanes on Sept. 13. (NOAA/NASA CIMSS/SSEC)
Super Typhoon Meranti was a monster. At its height, its wind speed was a constant 185 mph — not including gusts. It would have been the equivalent of a Category 6 hurricane if the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale extended beyond five.
On Sept. 13, Meranti, known in the Philippines as Ferdie, passed over the Philippine province of Batanes at peak strength. At one point, the island of Itbayat — population 3,000 — could be seen through the clear eye of the typhoon. It took two direct hits from the eyewall of the storm, where the most destructive winds are located.
Hazardous weather and ocean conditions prevented authorities from reaching Batanes for five days. Communication to Itbayat was cut off during the storm.

When authorities finally reached the island Sunday, they found a disaster zone. Fruit and leaves were scoured from trees, debris littered the ground and roads. But there were zero casualties, reports Rappler, a news media website in the Philippines. In fact, no casualties were reported on any island in Batanes.
This is unbelievable, quite frankly, given the wind speeds these islands endured for hours.
“I felt relieved that the situation there wasn’t as bad as we expected,” Ricardo Jalad, executive director of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council, told Rappler:
Like in other affected towns in Batanes, Jalad said, there was no reported casualty in Itbayat.
The two fishermen who went missing after Typhoon Ferdie made landfall in the island have been found, he added.
Along the way from the town’s airport, houses were partially damaged, Jalad said.
He was worried about how farmers and their families will recover from the disaster.
“ Ang mga niyog ay wala nang bunga. Ang mga saging ay bagsak. Medyo matagal-tagal na dapat tulungan sila sa pagkain (The coconut trees have no more coconuts. The banana plants are all down. They would need help in terms food for quite some time),” Jalad said.
Houses and schools were damaged and livestock were killed, according to a statement from the Philippine government. Initial estimates put the damage at $1.35 million in Itbayat alone.
