Significant flooding expected at Mid-Atlantic beaches, even as Hermine drifts a bit further out to sea
Capital Weather Gang
Satellite view of Hermine off the Atlantic coast this morning. (NASA)
Hermine may not be a hurricane anymore, or even a tropical cyclone, but it remains an imposing feature packing 65 mph winds and sending big waves to the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast U.S. coastline.
Over the next few days, the bulk of the destructive winds, rainfall, and even the cloud cover will remain offshore, which is good news for everyone but beach-goers.  Hermine will linger just offshore, generating a lot of angry waves and elevated water levels from Virginia up to Massachusetts.  Fortunately, the storm has drifted further east than earlier forecasts had predicted, which reduces its impact somewhat, but not completely.
As of Sunday morning, storm surge warnings extend from Cape Charles up to Sandy Hook Bay, while storm surge watches are in effect for the Delaware Bay and the Long Island region.  Not all of the locations will experience their highest water levels at the same time of course, but over the coming 4-5 days and especially during high tide.
Storm surge watches and warnings based on Sunday’s 8 a.m. forecast. (NOAA)
The worst is still ahead for Ocean City, Md., which should see its peak water level on Monday morning at nearly four feet above the average high tide level.  Lewes, Rehoboth, and Atlantic City can expect about the same.  Areas further north along New Jersey and New York are less certain at this point, but should be on high alert for the potential for major beach erosion and coastal flooding.
Tide height forecast for Ocean City, Md., shows moderate flooding at high tide Monday morning and evening. (NOAA)
For the Ocean City, Md., area the National Weather Service states, “Winds remaining gusty today but will average 15-25 mph with gusts to 40 mph along the ocaen. Only Minor rainfall amounts today and tonight. Coastal flood threat greatest ocean side, with minor to low end moderate flooding today and tonight, increasing to moderate to locally severe possible on Monday when the highest storm surge of the event is likely to occur. Minor flooding possible Chesapeake Bay side.”
On Saturday morning, Hermine lost its tropical characteristics and transitioned to a more typical type of storm for being this far north. It is now officially classified as “post-tropical,” as opposed to purely tropical or a hybrid type called subtropical. These designations classify a storm by the distribution of its winds and its primary fuel source.  They do not make a storm any less dangerous!  A post-tropical cyclone with hurricane-force winds is definitely capable of causing damage — just think back four years ago to Sandy and its New Jersey landfall.
Unlike Sandy, Hermine is not forecast to actually make landfall.  Landfall would bring the strongest winds immediately to the coastline (as well as higher storm surges), but a large intense storm stalling offshore still creates trouble for beaches and coastal residents.

The National Hurricane Center (NHC) has continued to issue its suite of advisories and products on Hermine for continuity.  Normally, that agency is only responsible for tropical and subtropical systems, but since Sandy in 2012, it was decided that storms which transition to extratropical status near the coastline still require a high level of public awareness and guidance.  As such, tropical storm warnings and watches are still being issued — not because it’s a tropical storm, but because it’s an extratropical cyclone with tropical-storm-force winds.
Surface wind streamlines on Sunday morning. (earth.nullschool.net)
