Fake: Inhaling hot water steam does not kill coronavirus - Oneindia News বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు English News India International Sports Business Features Videos Motivational Stories Videos City Bengaluru New Delhi Mumbai Chennai Kolkata Pune Salem Belgaum Ahmedabad Hyderabad Mangalore Sports PRO KABADDI LEAGUE Cricket Football Photos Videos Movies Bollywood Hollywood Tamil Telugu Malayalam Kannada Television Photo Gallery Lifestyle Beauty Cookery Insync Health Home n Garden Pregnancy n Parenting Relationship Auto Car News Bike News Reviews How-To Photos EMI Calculator Offbeat Latest New Cars Gadgets Mobile Tablet Reviews Gadgets Coupons Tata Cliq Amazon MMT Nykaa Jabong Flipkart Swiggy C'trip Bookmyshow Goibibo GoDaddy Bigbasket Money Education Travel Get Oneindia extension extension search notifications notifications_off You can manage your notification subscription by clicking on the icon. To start receiving timely alerts, as shown below click on the Green “lock” icon next to the address bar Click it and Unblock the Notifications Close X Close X To Start receiving timely alerts please follow the below steps: Click on the Menu icon of the browser, it opens up a list of options. Click on the “Options ”, it opens up the settings page, Here click on the “Privacy & Security” options listed on the left hand side of the page. Scroll down the page to the “Permission” section . Here click on the “Settings” tab of the Notification option. A pop up will open with all listed sites, select the option “ALLOW“, for the respective site under the status head to allow the notification. Once the changes is done, click on the “Save Changes” option to save the changes. Notifications Clear All No Notifications Trending Coronavirus For Quick Alerts Subscribe Now   India to declare emergency in mid-April? Absolutely fake says Indian Army View Sample For Quick Alerts ALLOW NOTIFICATIONS   For Daily Alerts Just In 11 min ago Leopard-like animal seen in posh Chandigarh locality, residents told to stay indoors 18 min ago Furore after migrants sanitised with chemical spray in Bareilly 37 min ago Panic bigger problem than COVID-19: SC seeks Centre’s reply on migrant crisis Must Watch Don't Miss Sports Tokyo Olympics: Olympics 2021 will open on July 23, claims report Finance Bank of Baroda Cuts Lending Rates Technology OnePlus 7T Pro Likely Discounted Ahead Of OnePlus 8 Series’ Official Launch Lifestyle Urvashi Rautela Glams Up In A Stunning Red Sequin Gown And We Can’t Stop Adoring Her! Movies Latest TRP Ratings: Naagin 4 Witnesses A Jump; Barrister Babu Retains 10th Spot Travel 10 Best Places To Visit In South India In April Automobiles Coronavirus Pandemic: Indian Army Modifies Bus To Carry Coronavirus Patients Along With Medical Aids Education Coronavirus Outbreak: NTA Helpline Numbers Released For JEE Main & NEET Aspirants News India Fake: Inhaling hot water steam does not kill coronavirus India oi-Vicky Nanjappa By Vikash Aiyappa | Updated: Monday, March 30, 2020, 16:09 [IST] New Delhi, Mar 30: A message is doing the rounds on the social media that inhaling hot steam from hot water will kill coronavirus. The message says that a Chinese expert has assured everybody that inhalation of steam from hot water kills coronavirus 100 per cent. Even if the virus has entered the nose, throat or lungs, this treatment will help. Coronavirus cannot stand the hot water steam. Please circulate this information to all your family and friends, the message also reads. India to declare emergency in mid-April? Absolutely fake says Indian Army NEWS AT 3 PM, MARCH 30th, 2020 First and foremost, no vaccine has been found as yet to fight coronavirus. Secondly there is no scientific evidence that proves that inhaling hot water steam will kill coronavirus. Instead of spreading the above fake message, you must instead share that social distancing, respiratory hygiene and washing your hands regularly are the most effective ways to fight coronavirus. More CORONAVIRUS News Furore after migrants sanitised with chemical spray in Bareilly Panic bigger problem than COVID-19: SC seeks Centre’s reply on migrant crisis China building makeshift hospital for Pakistan to treat COVID-19 patients Migrants in UP get a ‘chemical bath:’ Inquiry ordered India not in community transmission stage of coronavirus, govt clarifies again 500 Ola Cabs to transport doctors and for coronavirus-related activities in K'taka 34-year-old coronavirus survivor says staying at home is the only option India to declare emergency in mid-April? Absolutely fake says Indian Army Delhi: Doctors on COVID-19 duty at 2 city hospitals to be accommodated at Lalit Hotel Coronavirus linked to cardiac injury even in patients without heart conditions Now 'Shaktimaan' returns amid coronavirus lockdown Coronavirus impact: How Isolation, HIV memories hit India's Transgender community hard in lockdowns For Breaking News and Instant Updates Allow Notifications You have already subscribed Comments Read more about: coronavirus fake news buster social media Heatwave conditions may compound challenges in containing COVID-19 Kerala: Doctors against 'liquor prescription' during lockdown Fake circular stating booze stores in Karnataka will be opened up does the rounds Featured Posts For Daily Alerts Oneindia in Other Languages বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు Explore Oneindia News India Sports Videos Cricket Features Coupons Business International Football Follow Oneindia Daily Updates About Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Apps | RSS | Advertise with Us | Work for Us | Contact Us | Feedback | Sitemap | Cookie Policy © One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. All Rights Reserved. The "ONEINDIA" word mark and logo are owned by One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. Close Get Instant News Updates Enable x Notification Settings X Time Settings Don't Block Block for 8 hours Block for 12 hours Block for 24 hours Dont send alerts during 1 am 2 am 3 am 4 am 5 am 6 am 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm 11 pm 12 am to 1 am 2 am 3 am 4 am 5 am 6 am 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm 11 pm 12 am Switch Off Clear My notification inbox Done Clear Notification X Do you want to clear all the notifications from your inbox? Yes No Settings X 0 No New Notifications X We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. This includes cookies from third party social media websites and ad networks. Such third party cookies may track your use on Oneindia sites for better rendering. Our partners use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on Oneindia website. However, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Learn more Change Settings Continue X