Coronavirus outbreak: Supreme Court's Offices of Registry to remain close till April 15 - Oneindia News বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు English News India International Sports Business Features Videos Motivational Stories Videos City Bengaluru New Delhi Mumbai Chennai Kolkata Pune Salem Belgaum Ahmedabad Hyderabad Mangalore Sports PRO KABADDI LEAGUE Cricket Football Photos Videos Movies Bollywood Hollywood Tamil Telugu Malayalam Kannada Television Photo Gallery Lifestyle Beauty Cookery Insync Health Home n Garden Pregnancy n Parenting Relationship Auto Car News Bike News Reviews How-To Photos EMI Calculator Offbeat Latest New Cars Gadgets Mobile Tablet Reviews Gadgets Coupons Tata Cliq Amazon MMT Nykaa Jabong Flipkart Swiggy C'trip Bookmyshow Goibibo GoDaddy Bigbasket Money Education Travel Get Oneindia extension extension search notifications notifications_off You can manage your notification subscription by clicking on the icon. To start receiving timely alerts, as shown below click on the Green “lock” icon next to the address bar Click it and Unblock the Notifications Close X Close X To Start receiving timely alerts please follow the below steps: Click on the Menu icon of the browser, it opens up a list of options. Click on the “Options ”, it opens up the settings page, Here click on the “Privacy & Security” options listed on the left hand side of the page. Scroll down the page to the “Permission” section . Here click on the “Settings” tab of the Notification option. A pop up will open with all listed sites, select the option “ALLOW“, for the respective site under the status head to allow the notification. Once the changes is done, click on the “Save Changes” option to save the changes. Notifications Clear All No Notifications Trending Coronavirus For Quick Alerts Subscribe Now   COVID-19: Patient recovers in Himachal Pradesh View Sample For Quick Alerts ALLOW NOTIFICATIONS   For Daily Alerts Just In 27 min ago Test awaited as Bengaluru scientist claims this device can neutralise coronavirus 49 min ago COVID-19: Case of negligence registered against MP journo who attended Kamal Nath presser 1 hr ago Fake: Lemon and turmeric do not prevent coronavirus Must Watch Don't Miss Movies Radhika Apte's Masked Pic From Hospital Leaves Fans Concerned; Actress Clarifies 'Not For COVID-19' Technology OnePlus Always-On Display Likely On Cards: Everything You Need To Know Finance Senior Citizens To Get 3-Months Pension In Advance: Govt. Automobiles Next-Generation Hyundai i20 Official Walkaround Video Released: India Launch Expected Soon Sports La Liga feature: Throwback to the best this season Lifestyle 9 Ways In Which You Can Stay Calm During A Difficult Situation Travel 10 Best Family Friendly Destinations To Visit In April In India Education Coronavirus Outbreak: NTA Helpline Numbers Released For JEE Main & NEET Aspirants News India Coronavirus outbreak: Supreme Court's Offices of Registry to remain close till April 15 India oi-Ajay Joseph Raj P By Alphonse Joseph | Updated: Saturday, March 28, 2020, 9:37 [IST] New Delhi, Mar 28: Amid the ongoing preventive measures to stop the COVID-19 cycle, the Supreme Court's Offices of Registry is said to remain closed till April 15. However, there are few exemptions where the protocol, caretaking section, computer and judicial sections and court masters is expected to continue as usual. An order from the Supreme Court, dated March 27 said, "Hon'ble the Chief Justice of India has directed that as a preventive measure in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the Offices of the Registry (except Protocol, Caretaking Section, Computer and Judicial Sections dealing with filing and listing of matters and Court Masters) shall continue to remain closed till 15th April, 2020 on the same terms and conditions as notified earlier vide Order dated 22' March, 2020." #Stayathome and send us your selfie On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to deal with the spread of coronavirus. He also claimed that "social distancing" is the only option to deal with the disease. Earlier, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare reported a total of 724 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in India. More SUPREME COURT News Explained: The SC’s decision to invoke its plenary power to extend limitation period of appeals SC expresses satisfaction over government’s fight against coronavirus Covid-19: SC expresses satisfaction, says critics also lauding Centre's efforts Coronavirus: SC cancels benches, only urgent cases hearing through video-conferencing From Yakub Memon to Nirbhaya case convicts: Times when SC held post-midnight hearings Nirbhaya: Karuna Nundy, the lawyer who helped frame India's anti-rape bill Nirbhaya case: Asha Devi shows victory sign COVID-19: Remove Shaheen Bagh protesters says plea in SC SC junks curative plea filed by Nirbhaya’s killer Nirbhaya: Six judge SC Bench to hear convict’s curative plea MP floor test: SC to continue hearing today MP floor test: Not inclined to come in way of legislature says SC For Breaking News and Instant Updates Allow Notifications You have already subscribed Comments Read more about: supreme court closed coronavirus Do care to share: GiveIndia launches mission to support COVID-19 hitfamilies MHA advisory tells states to prevent exodus of migrant labourers amidst COVID-19 lockdown Fake: Government has not order shut down of internet in India Featured Posts For Daily Alerts Oneindia in Other Languages বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు Explore Oneindia News India Sports Videos Cricket Features Coupons Business International Football Follow Oneindia Daily Updates About Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Apps | RSS | Advertise with Us | Work for Us | Contact Us | Feedback | Sitemap | Cookie Policy © One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. All Rights Reserved. The "ONEINDIA" word mark and logo are owned by One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. Close Get Instant News Updates Enable x Notification Settings X Time Settings Don't Block Block for 8 hours Block for 12 hours Block for 24 hours Dont send alerts during 1 am 2 am 3 am 4 am 5 am 6 am 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm 11 pm 12 am to 1 am 2 am 3 am 4 am 5 am 6 am 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm 11 pm 12 am Switch Off Clear My notification inbox Done Clear Notification X Do you want to clear all the notifications from your inbox? Yes No Settings X 0 No New Notifications X We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. This includes cookies from third party social media websites and ad networks. Such third party cookies may track your use on Oneindia sites for better rendering. Our partners use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on Oneindia website. However, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Learn more Change Settings Continue X