UNC Has An Important Game This Weekend. What Else Is New?
 The Shows Inside Carolina Call-In Wolfpack Recap Meet Taylor Zarzour Weekly Features Taylor's Top 25 The Stations The Schedule Canes Coverage Sports News Basketball News Football News Baseball News Golf News Hockey News NASCAR News College Sports News Listen App State Carolina Hurricanes Duke East Carolina NC State South Carolina UNC Virginia Tech Wake Forest Galleries 2008 Clemson vs. Alabama NCSU vs. ECU NCSU Vs. Wake NSCU vs S. Carolina UNC vs Notre Dame UNC vs. Boston College UNC vs. Georgia Tech UNC Vs. McNeese State UNC vs. UConn UNC Vs. Virginia UNC vs. Virginia Tech UNC vs. West Virginia 2007 Unknown ECU-UNC Taylor-Virgina UNC-Louisville UNC-USC UNC-UVA UNC-WAKE UNC-MIAMI UNC-NCSU Discuss Contact Us Contact Us Call The Show Advertise Posts » UNC Football » UNC Has An Important Game This Weekend. What Else Is New? UNC Has An Important Game This Weekend. What Else Is New? Posted: 9/30/2008 by Bryce Wilson Since its opening week win over McNeese State, it seems Carolina has had a "big game" every single week In week two, the Heels prepared to play a nationally televised game at Rutgers on September 11. The storylines for the game were filled with Carolina’s streak of winless games outside the state. Butch Davis’ team responded with a resounding victory, albeit over what now looks like a reeling Rutgers squad. The conference opener against favorite Virginia Tech was circled as UNC’s chance to make a statement in the conference race. Perhaps if not for an injury to starting quarterback T.J. Yates the Tar Heels would have staked claim to the top spot in the division. Well, without the injury and 100+ yards of penalties. And last week the Heels faced another challenge staring a 0-2 conference start square in the face against another young, upstart Miami team. Rallying behind veteran quarterback Cam Sexton the Heels rose to the occasion and stole a victory in the sunshine state. Now this week Carolina has a game with possible national implications as a ranked Connecticut team travels to Kenan Stadium. A win and the Heels could be ranked for the first time in Davis’ tenure, and give the boys in blue four wins, equaling last year’s total already. (What would a national ranking mean? Truthfully not much, as most rankings right now are hollow anyway but it would mean Davis has the Tar Heels back on the nation’s radar.) But perhaps more important than anything is the fact that Carolina keeps playing meaningful games. Programs regressing don’t have big games every weekend. North Carolina hasn’t had big games every weekend in quite some time. The longer you have those types of games the more it says about where your program is heading. Fans, players, and coaches alike should be thrilled big games in Kenan Stadium have come so fast. In only Davis’ second year, he has his very young team performing well in tough situations. A lesser team would have completely collapsed when it was punched in the mouth literally and figuratively last week at Miami. As a matter of fact, lesser teams did collapse in the past; see blowout losses to Louisville (2004), Utah (2005) and Clemson (2006). But this group of baby Heels made a statement and continues to make a statement each and every week by making the next game "The Big Game." They all won’t be huge games, and at some point this young team may not respond like it did against the Hurricanes. But regardless of whether or not Carolina can beat a ranked opponent for the first time this year, the program is building towards making the next game "big" every time. --David Walker  » Got an Opinion? Tell us what you think! Recent Entries That Time of the Year on Tobacco Road Coach K On Carolina Duke-Carolina Renews Rivalry and Refreshes Memories Is Sid On The Clock? Heels Keep Emotions in Check, Not Checked at the Door Already Thinking About The Big One Ginyard Still Trying to Get Back Longtime NC State Women's Coach Kay Yow Dies At 66 Frank Had A Feeling There's Always Been Media Bias, Including Here Categories General NCSU Football Appalachian State Duke Basketball Duke Football ECU Football NCSU Basketball The Big Tailgate UNC Basketball UNC Football Wake Forest Basketball Wake Forest Football Recent Comments RE:UNC vs McKnees State Future of Glennon RE:UNC vs McKnees State RE:UNC vs McKnees State UNC vs McKnees State Clemson will kill the conference NC State will rock 08 Today's Sports Headlines Polls UNC Basketball What will happen to Carolinas basketball season? It will continue to go south and be a major disappointment   24% They will turn it around but still lose in the NCAA Tournament   42% They will win the National Championship   34% Links Appalachian State Mountaineers Carolina Hurricanes Carolina Panthers Charlotte Bobcats Clemson Tigers Duke Blue Devils East Carolina Pirates Elon Phoenix NASCAR NC A&T Aggies NC Central Eagles NC State Wolfpack PGA Tour South Carolina Gamecocks UNC Tarheels Wake Forest Demon Deacons Washington Redskins ©   Powered by Agilesite Subscribe - RSS | Subscribe to The Big Tailgate | Add Widget to your site! The Big Tailgate w. Taylor Zarzour © All Rights Reserved | Site Map  