For asthma patients, the novel coronavirus can be scary. Here's what you need to know - SFGate Sign In Home Contact SFGATE Classifieds About SFGATE About SFGATE FAQ SFGate Newsletters SFGate Staff Careers Site Index Hearst Ad Choices Advertise with Us More on Advertising More on Advertising Place a Classified Ad About Our Ads Public Notices Local Business Directory Place an Obituary Gate List Privacy Notice Terms of Use Newsletters Do Not Sell My Info Contact SFGATE Customer Support Sign up for SFGATE Newsletters Folllow SFGATE on Facebook Advertise with SFGATE News Bay Area Election 2020 California Nation World Politics Crime Business Business Business Section Technology Jobs Public Notices Sponsored Content MBA by the Bay VisionSF Obituaries HHS: Federal stocks of protective equipment nearly depleted DC community volunteers provide food for locked-down needy US economy unlikely to recover as rapidly as it collapsed McConnell, Democrats jostle over urgent business virus aid Sports 49ers Raiders Giants A's Warriors Soccer Sharks Golf TV Listings College Preps Hall of Famer Al Kaline — Detroit’s beloved ‘Mr. Tiger’ Ex-NFL kicker Tom Dempsey, who kicked 63-yard field goal, dies at Report: NBA working on televised H-O-R-S-E competition Kobe Bryant, Tim Duncan, Kevin Garnett head star-studded Local Locals Money Things to Do Neighborhoods SF shows us what it's like to work from home with kids All electric, zero carbon footprint Berkeley home hits the market ‘Gift cards won’t cover rent and utilities’: How SF nail Historic Alameda Queen Anne with loft-like attic for sale for culture Events Entertainment Entertainment Entertainment News The Daily Dish Movies Music & Nightlife Performance Art Comics Datebook TV Horoscope Dear Abby Crosswords & Puzzles Things To Do Offbeat Tech Cannabis This Bay Area town has started weekly porch concerts to boost Until the SF Opera sings again, it's supporting frontline workers The pandemic giveth, the pandemic taketh away: Bay Area game shop The latest from Dear Abby Commuting Public Transit Ride-Sharing Traffic Drivers Bikes & Scooters Cars These are the 17 Muni lines still in service 'We screwed this one up': SFMTA director Jeffrey Tumlin weighs in VTA wants to build world's biggest subway tunnel in downtown San Everything you need to know about the SFMTA's Muni and parking Food + Drink Restaurants Reservations Beer News Chronicle Wine Competition 'It breaks our heart': Hillside Supper Club has permanently 7 Top Winery Concerts You Can’t Miss in August and September Bay Area restaurants and nonprofits are feeding hospital workers. Philz to re-open 27 Bay Area locations on Wednesday under new Travel City Guides Weekend Getaways Local Travel Tips and Hacks Wine Country Napa Reno-Tahoe Hawaii Mexico SF Insider: Things to do Monterey-Carmel Chris McGinnis' Travel Tips How health care workers can find free or discounted hotels The ultimate guide to Livermore's top wineries (The Press) United cuts SFO schedules to the bone Southwest Airlines eyes revival of Hawaii service Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes The Walk-Through Luxury On the Block Rentals Mortgage Rates Place an ad Neighborhood Guides Stuck house hunting at home? Tour Virtual Open Homes Survey: 50% say all their savings will be wiped out by the end of All electric, zero carbon footprint Berkeley home hits the market Designer Robin Randall offers an inspirational blend of new and Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary The Latest: Lakers GM Pelinka draws inspiration from Bryant Dreaded uptick worldwide of dead spiritual leaders Linda Tripp, whose tapes exposed Clinton affair, dies at 70 Mississippi shows wide racial gap in impact of coronavirus MenuSections FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE Here's how long after curve drops experts say we can go out again CDC traces start of Chicago outbreak to two family gatherings Health care workers comprise almost 10% of state's cases Study investigates if COVID-19 came to Calif. in fall 2019 Just 5 of over 50 new daily Calif. deaths from Bay Area https://www.sfgate.com/news/article/For-asthma-patients-the-novel-coronavirus-can-be-15189289.php For asthma patients, the novel coronavirus can be scary. Here's what you need to know S. Cindy Xi, University of Southern California Published 6:01 am PDT, Thursday, April 9, 2020 (The Conversation is an independent and nonprofit source of news, analysis and commentary from academic experts.) S. Cindy Xi, University of Southern California (THE CONVERSATION) The new coronavirus’s ability to wreak havoc in the lungs is raising a lot of concerns and questions from my asthma patients. They already know how it feels to have trouble breathing. Now, they are wondering what risks they face amid this new pandemic. Some worry that their asthma inhalers could increase their risk of COVID-19 infection. Others are asking if nebulizers are safe, and if they can use expired inhalers. Here are answers to some of the common questions I’m hearing as an allergist. Do people with asthma face a higher risk of severe illness if they get COVID-19? There’s a lot we still don’t know about COVID-19 and how it affects asthma patients. Based on the data we have so far, asthma does not appear to increase the risk of acquiring COVID-19. However, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention does list “chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma” under groups at higher risk for severe illness if they get COVID-19. It’s important to understand what “severe illness” means. One complication from COVID-19 is acute respiratory distress syndrome, a severe lung disease that results from damage to the alveoli, the air sacs of the lungs. When COVID-19 patients require ventilators, it’s often for acute respiratory distress syndrome. We don’t know very much about the risk factors for developing acute respiratory distress syndrome or how to treat the specific type of inflammation that drives this condition, but there is no evidence that asthma is a risk factor for developing acute respiratory distress syndrome if infected with COVID-19. In contrast to acute respiratory distress syndrome, asthma is a chronic condition that we know a lot about. It is characterized by airway inflammation, mucous production and airway spasm. Respiratory viruses, including strains of coronavirus that cause the common cold, can trigger asthma symptoms, and it’s likely that COVID-19 could do the same. Even though asthma is also an inflammatory condition, in contrast to acute respiratory distress syndrome, we have very effective treatments for asthma. What should I do to protect myself? Get your asthma under control and maintain that control. I cannot stress that enough. That means staying on your usual medications. At the first onset of respiratory symptoms, asthma patients should follow their individualized asthma action plan and contact their health care provider to see if additional treatments are necessary to prevent symptoms from worsening. Can I keep using steroid medications? A few patients have told me they stopped their inhaled corticosteroid medication because they were concerned that the steroids would suppress their immune systems. That’s exactly what asthma doctors don’t want to hear. Asthma controller therapies reduce the frequency and severity of everyday asthma symptoms as well as asthma attacks. Stopping asthma controllers can increase the likelihood of a severe asthma attack when exposed to a trigger, such as a virus or allergen. An asthma attack, even if unrelated to COVID-19, may result in an emergency room visit, which can then increase risk of exposure to COVID-19. For patients with COVID-19, the messages about corticosteroids can be confusing. In SARS and MERS, as well as emerging studies on COVID-19, corticosteroids have not been shown to have a survival benefit. The World Health Organization and the CDC recommend that corticosteroids not be used routinely to treat viral pneumonia or ARDS due to COVID-19. However, if a patient has an asthma attack, regardless of whether the trigger is COVID-19, corticosteroids are usually effective and should be used. Are nebulizers OK to use at home? Sometimes patients have difficulty using handheld inhalers and instead use nebulizers, which turn liquid medicine into a mist. Particularly when the patient is experiencing severe asthma symptoms, nebulizers can be more effective at delivering medication slowly into the airways. The current concern about nebulizers is that if they are used by a patient with a respiratory infection, the nebulizer could aerosolize droplets containing virus, allowing the virus to stay in the air longer. Hospitals and other facilities are being advised to reduce their use of nebulizers to reduce spread of the new coronavirus. If an asthma patient finds that nebulized therapy is more effective than inhalers, the nebulizer should be used in a room that is isolated from other household members. What can I do if my pharmacy runs out of albuterol rescue inhalers? Some parts of the country are experiencing shortages of albuterol inhalers, in part because hospitals are using them more for COVID-19 patients. If the pharmacy is out of stock, patients have some options: - Albuterol handheld inhalers are marketed under various names, and not all are in short supply. It’s worth asking the pharmacist if another formulation is available. - Nebulized albuterol is widely available and may be an alternative if the user takes the recommended precautions. - Check with mail order or other local pharmacies. - Ask your physician whether other rescue inhalers, such as levalbuterol or ipratropium, would be appropriate. Your physician may also suggest other alternatives. - If necessary, patients can use albuterol that has expired. In general, medications are thought to be safe one year after their expiration date, but they are not guaranteed to have the same potency. What else should I do to stay healthy? Asthma care is individualized, and I recommend that asthma patients check in with their health care providers to make sure they are using daily controller medications correctly have a plan in place in case asthma symptoms worsen. Keep a 30-day supply of your usual medications, but don’t stockpile medications, which can lead to shortages. At this point, most people are aware of the CDC’s recommendations on how to protect yourself, including social isolation, hand hygiene and disinfecting surfaces. I would add one more – pay attention to your mental health, too. When I asked one patient whether she had experienced asthma symptoms recently, her response was that she was hyperventilating at times just sitting and watching the news. She knew it was time to turn off the TV. It’s a stressful time. Getting good sleep and being kind to yourself and others is more important than ever. [Get facts about coronavirus and the latest research. Sign up for The Conversation’s newsletter.] This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article here: https://theconversation.com/for-asthma-patients-the-novel-coronavirus-can-be-scary-heres-what-you-need-to-know-135400. Most Popular 1 A massive wave of evictions is coming. Temporary bans won't help. 2 Study investigates if COVID-19 came to Calif. in fall 2019 3 Linda Tripp, Whistleblower in Monica Lewinsky Scandal, Dies at 70 4 Here's how long after curve drops experts say we can go out again 5 Who will be Biden's running mate? Here are the odds. LATEST NEWS Expert talks virus impact on 'particularly vulnerable' SF budget NorCal woman charged with licking $1,800 worth of groceries Survey: 50% say savings will be wiped out by end of April Why eggs are getting so expensive Massive wave of evictions coming. Temporary bans won't help. Grand Princess passengers file lawsuit over coronavirus Calif. nursing facility evacuated after staff no-shows Modly's trip to Guam cost taxpayers at least $243K View Comments © 2020 Hearst Communications, Inc. Logo Return to Top About Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Our Company The Press: Guide to Wine Country Green State: Cannabis Culture Careers Advertising Contact Customer Service Newsroom Contacts Connect Sign up for Email Alerts Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram CCPA Do Not Sell My Info QuickLinks Real Estate Summer Camp Guide Cars Jobs SF Marketplace Recruitment Home Services Obituaries Horoscopes Comics Dear Abby Weather Home Movies TV Earthquakes Wildfires Public Notice MBA by the Bay Hearst Newspapers © Copyright Hearst Communications, Inc.