Granite Hills High School (Porterville, California) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Granite Hills High School (Porterville, California) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Granite Hills High School, Porterville, CA) Jump to: navigation, search Granite Hills High School, established in 1999, is the one of the three high schools in Porterville, Tulare County, California. It is the newest of the three high schools. The current principal is Veryl Ann Duncan. Its online newspaper, the Grizzly Gazette, was a top 7 finalist in the National Scholastic Press Association Pacemaker Competition in the 2005-06 school year and were winners the following two years. The Granite Hills Academic Decathlon team won the Tulare County Academic Decathlon Regional Championship for the 6th consecutive year. The team members won twice as many medals than their neighboring high schools. Its AP program has the highest pass rate of any high school in the Porterville Unified school district. 253 seniors graduated during the 2007 school year. [edit] External links Granite Hills High School Webpage Granite Hills High School Online Newspaper, the Grizzly Gazette This California school-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Granite_Hills_High_School_(Porterville,_California)" Categories: High schools in Tulare County, California | California school stubs Views Article Discussion Edit this page History Personal tools Log in / create account Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Search   Interaction About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact Wikipedia Donate to Wikipedia Help Toolbox What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Printable version Permanent link Cite this page This page was last modified on 24 October 2008, at 20:45. All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License. (See Copyrights for details.) Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a U.S. registered 501(c)(3) tax-deductible nonprofit charity. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers