Coronavirus: Social distancing causing stress and making me anxious, says Serena Williams Scroll.in - Scroll.in Exchange The Plus Home Food Video The Latest The Reel The Field Opinion Trending COVID-19: After infected singer Kanika Kapoor attends party, seven politicians in self-quarantine COVID-19: India reports biggest single-day spike in number of cases, count now at 223 NRC is a ‘necessary exercise’, Modi government tells SC, after months of playing it down Coronavirus: Delhi metro services to remain shut on Sunday as part of ‘janata curfew’ COVID-19: Kolkata man falls ill after drinking cow urine, BJP leader who organised event arrested Don’t insult the great man: Gavaskar slams BCCI for insensitive comment over Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy The big news: India confirms 50 COVID-19 cases in a day, total leaps to 236, and 9 other top stories Watch: Gurugram highrise residents try to copy Italy’s balcony-singing, but use microphones COVID-19: All hospitals to test pneumonia patients for disease; number of cases rises to 236 Modi’s coronavirus speech: Straight out of the digital marketer’s playbook Why did the BJP government reintroduce a law that shackles the CBI’s investigations of corruption? A brief history of why most Indian women's clothes don't have pockets Sections Magazine Politics Culture India World Film and TV Music Books and Ideas Business and Economy Science and Technology In Pictures Announcements Bookshop Pulse Exchange The Plus TENNIS Coronavirus: Social distancing causing stress and making me anxious, says Serena Williams The 38-year-old revealed that she had planned to stay at home for six weeks with tennis schedules being postponed until June. Scroll Staff An hour ago AFP An hour ago Scroll Staff Share Tweet Email Reddit Print Comments Share Tweet Email Reddit Print Comments Twenty three-time Major winner Serena Williams, in a post on social media platform TikTok, said that she was struggling to cope with social distancing back home in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The 38-year-old revealed that she had planned to stay at home for six weeks with tennis schedules being postponed until June. The entire clay court season has gone for a toss. Williams, according to the report in the Guardian, revealed that she is now on the edge because of the pandemic. She said, “I wanted to take a minute and talk about my experience with coronavirus. It started out with me feeling like: ‘Oh it can’t really affect me.’ And then suddenly Indian Wells was cancelled and I was like: ‘Oh, Ok, that’s weird but I have a little time off and I’m going to enjoy that time off.’ And then one cancellation led to another and then led to another and led to all this anxiety that I’m feeling.” Williams revealed that the coronavirus crisis around the world has put her on the edge, even when she is around her daugher Olympia, who is two years-old. Williams added: “Now, I’ve been social distancing for actually a really long time, for probably two weeks now, and every little thing makes me go crazy. And by anxiety I mean I’m just on edge. Any time anyone sneezes around me or coughs I get crazy. I don’t hang out with anyone, and when I say anyone I mean my daughter. “She coughed, I got angry and gave her a side-eye. I gave her that ‘angry Serena’ and then I got sad. I was like: ‘Is she okay? Is there something wrong with my daughter? Is there anything I can do?’ I just don’t know what to do, so instead of being relaxed I’m really under a ton of stress.” Support our journalism by subscribing to Scroll+. We welcome your comments at letters@scroll.in. Coronavirus Serena Williams Sports and Coronavirus Read Comments Print Related Coronavirus: Laver Cup says it will go on as planned, despite clash with rescheduled French Open Trending COVID-19: After infected singer Kanika Kapoor attends party, seven politicians in self-quarantine COVID-19: India reports biggest single-day spike in number of cases, count now at 223 NRC is a ‘necessary exercise’, Modi government tells SC, after months of playing it down Coronavirus: Delhi metro services to remain shut on Sunday as part of ‘janata curfew’ COVID-19: Kolkata man falls ill after drinking cow urine, BJP leader who organised event arrested