Opinion | Vinay Menon: Social distancing for pets will draw a beastly response from humans | GuelphMercury.com Vinay Menon: Social distancing for pets will draw a beastly response from humans Opinion 02:31 PM by Vinay Menon Entertainment Columnist I really must draw the line at buying a mask for my cat. As crazy as this lockdown is for humans, do you ever wonder what our pets are thinking? All of a sudden, we’re just always there. They wake up, we’re there. They eat, we’re there. They stand at the door in the morning, waiting for us to rush off to work but, nope, we’re still there. I’ll sometimes catch my cat staring at me at night, in the glow of the TV, as if trying to figure out what is going on: Did he run up a gambling debt? Did he lose the car keys? Are there Komodo dragons hiding in the bushes? IS THIS LUNATIC EVER GOING TO LEAVE THE HOUSE AGAIN? For cats and dogs, the last six weeks must feel like Groundhog Day. But at least they were spared the radical edicts of quarantine — until now. This week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, which often helps set global policy during any contagion, extended social-distancing guidelines to include household pets. Yes, now Fluffy and Mr. Sparklepants must avoid others. As the agency noted in a bulletin: “CDC is aware of a small number of pets, including cats and dogs, reported to be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, mostly after close contact with people with COVID-19. Treat pets as you would other human family members — do not let pets interact with people or animals outside the household.” And if an owner has tested positive, changes need to be made inside the household. A sick human, according to the CDC, should “avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding.” The “sharing food” gave me chills, mostly because if we don’t restart this economy soon, we’re all going to be on all-fours, lapping away at Fancy Feast and Purina on the kitchen floor. So is this a prudent heads-up to keep our furry friends safe? Or are we humans starting to get crushed by a dangerous abundance of caution? As a practical matter, social distancing to a dog is like migrating south to a caged budgie. It’s not going to happen. Even if off-leash parks are avoided, as the CDC suggests, have you ever seen two dogs pass one another on the sidewalk and not fuse together like biological magnets? If humans greeted other humans in public the way dogs do, half of us would now be in jail. If I see a woman window-shopping on the Danforth and promptly yelp, wag my tongue and bolt forward to sniff her hindquarters, I’d fully expect to get walloped with a handbag. And what are you supposed to do about your outdoor cat? Tell her to stay two metres away from other outdoor cats? Forbid her from stalking other creatures, which is all she lives for? Buy her a mask? Keep her locked in the attic until 2021? None of this makes a lick of sense. But here’s the real problem with the CDC extending social-distancing guidelines to pets: it’s only going to make humans question those guidelines for humans. In cities around the world, based on cellphone tracking data, a “quarantine fatigue” is setting in. When lockdown started, I’d look out my window and it was a ghost town. For the first three weeks, every day looked like Christmas morning. Nobody was outside. But in the last couple of weeks, I’m seeing more pedestrians and joggers and cars. On Saturday, I almost thought the lockdown was over. There were lots of people outside, ambling in groups of three or more, sipping coffee, talking and laughing in proximity as if it were 2019. Now, obviously, I don’t want anyone’s pet to get ill. I’d take a bullet for my Burmese. But the longer this lockdown goes, the more it will crystallize into a fierce debate between flattening the curve to prevent death and killing the economy, which is actively destroying lives. This is a challenging tango in a brand-new ballroom. And if we are to avoid face-planting into the hardwood, we can’t question the choreography. But if authorities advise people to now impose social distancing on pets, that is exactly what’s going to happen. I can already imagine some future protest signs: “These losers told me to isolate Fido! Reopen the economy now!” As far as I can tell, one dog in North America — a pug named Winston in North Carolina — has tested positive for COVID-19. One. There have been a few more feline cases, yes, including tigers and lions at the Bronx Zoo. But you know what? All have recovered. When you consider there are roughly eight million cats and six million dogs in Canada, you or I have a better chance of winning Lotto 6/49 than our beloved companions do of spreading or succumbing to COVID-19. The numbers just don’t add up. And that’s why this warning feels like a false alarm. Social distancing for pets makes about as much sense as homework for houseplants. Until new research emerges to change something, let’s keep the focus on humans and not give anyone a reason to feel any more like a wrongly caged animal. I don’t want to be catty or bark at the moon. But during a pandemic, the only thing silly guidelines do is bite the serious ones. Vinay Menon is the Star’s pop culture columnist based in Toronto. Follow him on Twitter: @vinaymenon Vinay Menon: Social distancing for pets will draw a beastly response from humans Opinion 02:31 PM by Vinay Menon Entertainment Columnist I really must draw the line at buying a mask for my cat. As crazy as this lockdown is for humans, do you ever wonder what our pets are thinking? All of a sudden, we’re just always there. They wake up, we’re there. They eat, we’re there. They stand at the door in the morning, waiting for us to rush off to work but, nope, we’re still there. I’ll sometimes catch my cat staring at me at night, in the glow of the TV, as if trying to figure out what is going on: Did he run up a gambling debt? Did he lose the car keys? Are there Komodo dragons hiding in the bushes? IS THIS LUNATIC EVER GOING TO LEAVE THE HOUSE AGAIN? For cats and dogs, the last six weeks must feel like Groundhog Day. But at least they were spared the radical edicts of quarantine — until now. This week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, which often helps set global policy during any contagion, extended social-distancing guidelines to include household pets. Yes, now Fluffy and Mr. Sparklepants must avoid others. As the agency noted in a bulletin: “CDC is aware of a small number of pets, including cats and dogs, reported to be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, mostly after close contact with people with COVID-19. Treat pets as you would other human family members — do not let pets interact with people or animals outside the household.” And if an owner has tested positive, changes need to be made inside the household. A sick human, according to the CDC, should “avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding.” The “sharing food” gave me chills, mostly because if we don’t restart this economy soon, we’re all going to be on all-fours, lapping away at Fancy Feast and Purina on the kitchen floor. So is this a prudent heads-up to keep our furry friends safe? Or are we humans starting to get crushed by a dangerous abundance of caution? As a practical matter, social distancing to a dog is like migrating south to a caged budgie. It’s not going to happen. Even if off-leash parks are avoided, as the CDC suggests, have you ever seen two dogs pass one another on the sidewalk and not fuse together like biological magnets? If humans greeted other humans in public the way dogs do, half of us would now be in jail. If I see a woman window-shopping on the Danforth and promptly yelp, wag my tongue and bolt forward to sniff her hindquarters, I’d fully expect to get walloped with a handbag. And what are you supposed to do about your outdoor cat? Tell her to stay two metres away from other outdoor cats? Forbid her from stalking other creatures, which is all she lives for? Buy her a mask? Keep her locked in the attic until 2021? None of this makes a lick of sense. But here’s the real problem with the CDC extending social-distancing guidelines to pets: it’s only going to make humans question those guidelines for humans. In cities around the world, based on cellphone tracking data, a “quarantine fatigue” is setting in. When lockdown started, I’d look out my window and it was a ghost town. For the first three weeks, every day looked like Christmas morning. Nobody was outside. But in the last couple of weeks, I’m seeing more pedestrians and joggers and cars. On Saturday, I almost thought the lockdown was over. There were lots of people outside, ambling in groups of three or more, sipping coffee, talking and laughing in proximity as if it were 2019. Now, obviously, I don’t want anyone’s pet to get ill. I’d take a bullet for my Burmese. But the longer this lockdown goes, the more it will crystallize into a fierce debate between flattening the curve to prevent death and killing the economy, which is actively destroying lives. This is a challenging tango in a brand-new ballroom. And if we are to avoid face-planting into the hardwood, we can’t question the choreography. But if authorities advise people to now impose social distancing on pets, that is exactly what’s going to happen. I can already imagine some future protest signs: “These losers told me to isolate Fido! Reopen the economy now!” As far as I can tell, one dog in North America — a pug named Winston in North Carolina — has tested positive for COVID-19. One. There have been a few more feline cases, yes, including tigers and lions at the Bronx Zoo. But you know what? All have recovered. When you consider there are roughly eight million cats and six million dogs in Canada, you or I have a better chance of winning Lotto 6/49 than our beloved companions do of spreading or succumbing to COVID-19. The numbers just don’t add up. And that’s why this warning feels like a false alarm. Social distancing for pets makes about as much sense as homework for houseplants. Until new research emerges to change something, let’s keep the focus on humans and not give anyone a reason to feel any more like a wrongly caged animal. I don’t want to be catty or bark at the moon. But during a pandemic, the only thing silly guidelines do is bite the serious ones. Vinay Menon is the Star’s pop culture columnist based in Toronto. Follow him on Twitter: @vinaymenon Top Stories Vinay Menon: Social distancing for pets will draw a beastly response from humans Opinion 02:31 PM by Vinay Menon Entertainment Columnist I really must draw the line at buying a mask for my cat. As crazy as this lockdown is for humans, do you ever wonder what our pets are thinking? All of a sudden, we’re just always there. They wake up, we’re there. They eat, we’re there. They stand at the door in the morning, waiting for us to rush off to work but, nope, we’re still there. I’ll sometimes catch my cat staring at me at night, in the glow of the TV, as if trying to figure out what is going on: Did he run up a gambling debt? Did he lose the car keys? Are there Komodo dragons hiding in the bushes? IS THIS LUNATIC EVER GOING TO LEAVE THE HOUSE AGAIN? For cats and dogs, the last six weeks must feel like Groundhog Day. But at least they were spared the radical edicts of quarantine — until now. This week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, which often helps set global policy during any contagion, extended social-distancing guidelines to include household pets. Yes, now Fluffy and Mr. Sparklepants must avoid others. As the agency noted in a bulletin: “CDC is aware of a small number of pets, including cats and dogs, reported to be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, mostly after close contact with people with COVID-19. Treat pets as you would other human family members — do not let pets interact with people or animals outside the household.” And if an owner has tested positive, changes need to be made inside the household. A sick human, according to the CDC, should “avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding.” The “sharing food” gave me chills, mostly because if we don’t restart this economy soon, we’re all going to be on all-fours, lapping away at Fancy Feast and Purina on the kitchen floor. So is this a prudent heads-up to keep our furry friends safe? Or are we humans starting to get crushed by a dangerous abundance of caution? As a practical matter, social distancing to a dog is like migrating south to a caged budgie. It’s not going to happen. Even if off-leash parks are avoided, as the CDC suggests, have you ever seen two dogs pass one another on the sidewalk and not fuse together like biological magnets? If humans greeted other humans in public the way dogs do, half of us would now be in jail. If I see a woman window-shopping on the Danforth and promptly yelp, wag my tongue and bolt forward to sniff her hindquarters, I’d fully expect to get walloped with a handbag. And what are you supposed to do about your outdoor cat? Tell her to stay two metres away from other outdoor cats? Forbid her from stalking other creatures, which is all she lives for? Buy her a mask? Keep her locked in the attic until 2021? None of this makes a lick of sense. But here’s the real problem with the CDC extending social-distancing guidelines to pets: it’s only going to make humans question those guidelines for humans. In cities around the world, based on cellphone tracking data, a “quarantine fatigue” is setting in. When lockdown started, I’d look out my window and it was a ghost town. For the first three weeks, every day looked like Christmas morning. Nobody was outside. But in the last couple of weeks, I’m seeing more pedestrians and joggers and cars. On Saturday, I almost thought the lockdown was over. There were lots of people outside, ambling in groups of three or more, sipping coffee, talking and laughing in proximity as if it were 2019. Now, obviously, I don’t want anyone’s pet to get ill. I’d take a bullet for my Burmese. But the longer this lockdown goes, the more it will crystallize into a fierce debate between flattening the curve to prevent death and killing the economy, which is actively destroying lives. This is a challenging tango in a brand-new ballroom. And if we are to avoid face-planting into the hardwood, we can’t question the choreography. But if authorities advise people to now impose social distancing on pets, that is exactly what’s going to happen. I can already imagine some future protest signs: “These losers told me to isolate Fido! Reopen the economy now!” As far as I can tell, one dog in North America — a pug named Winston in North Carolina — has tested positive for COVID-19. One. There have been a few more feline cases, yes, including tigers and lions at the Bronx Zoo. But you know what? All have recovered. When you consider there are roughly eight million cats and six million dogs in Canada, you or I have a better chance of winning Lotto 6/49 than our beloved companions do of spreading or succumbing to COVID-19. The numbers just don’t add up. And that’s why this warning feels like a false alarm. Social distancing for pets makes about as much sense as homework for houseplants. Until new research emerges to change something, let’s keep the focus on humans and not give anyone a reason to feel any more like a wrongly caged animal. I don’t want to be catty or bark at the moon. But during a pandemic, the only thing silly guidelines do is bite the serious ones. Vinay Menon is the Star’s pop culture columnist based in Toronto. Follow him on Twitter: @vinaymenon Top Stories More News More News