Bright light, disinfectant in body not recommended tactics to fight coronavirus, expert says Skip to content CMN Miracle Monday Yokem Connection Home News Weather Sports Community About Us Home Watch Live Watch on Roku & Amazon Fire Tell Us Your Story News Code of Conduct Politics KSLA Investigates CrimeTracker Spending Smarter Keeping You Safe The Good Stuff Editorial Download apps Weather Hurricane Center Severe Weather Coverage Community KSLA Cafe KSLA Salutes Yokem Connection Hometown Show KSLA Worship Directory Childrens Miracle Network Calendar Sports Lander's Athlete of the Week TV Programming Schedule Full Court Press with Greta Van Susteren Circle - Country Music & Lifestyle About Us Meet the Team National Bright light, disinfectant in body not recommended tactics to fight coronavirus, expert says Trump suggests dangerous tactics to fight coronavirus April 24, 2020 at 5:42 AM CDT - Updated April 24 at 5:42 AM (CNN) - Drinking disinfectant to try and kill the coronavirus? That’s not something the Food and Drug Administration’s commissioner Stephen Hahn would recommend. He made that clear Thursday after an eyebrow-raising moment at the daily White House coronavirus task force briefing. President Donald Trump suggested scientists should explore using UV light and disinfectant to treat the virus in humans. “So supposing we hit the body with a tremendous, whether it’s ultraviolet or just very powerful light. And I think you said that hasn’t been checked but you’re going to test it. Then I said supposing you brought the light inside the body, which you could do, either through the skin or some other way and I think you said you were going to test that, too. Sounds interesting,” Trump said. “Then I see the disinfectant, where it knocks it out in a minute, one minute. Is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside, or almost a cleaning because you see it gets on the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs. So it will be interesting to check that. That you’re going to have to use medical doctors. But it sounds interesting to me,” he added. Doctors warn high-intensity UV lamps and sun exposure will not protect you from the coronavirus. They also note that kind of exposure comes with other dangers. It can cause sunburns, skin cancer, and other illnesses. Covid-19 has been in the U.S. infecting people for longer than you think Copyright 2020 CNN. All rights reserved. 60 Currently in Shreveport, LA Full Forecast Sponsored By RECENT CONTENT   Somber Congress delivers nearly $500B more in virus aid The bipartisan measure passed as lawmakers gathered in Washington as a group for the first time since March 27, adopting stricter social distancing rules while seeking to prove they can do their work despite the COVID-19 crisis. By  ANDREW TAYLOR and ALAN FRAM   Pandemic job losses hit new high, antiviral tests disappoint In a trend seen around the globe, roughly 26 million Americans — the population of the 10 biggest U.S. cities combined — have filed for jobless aid in five weeks. By  DAVID CRARY, REGINA GARCIA CANO and ELAINE KURTENBACH Biden backs mail vote, says Trump’s opposition ‘un-American’ By  BILL BARROW Published April 23, 2020 at 9:23 PM   Virus pushes US unemployment toward highest since Depression By  DAVID CRARY, KATHY GANNON, and ANGELA CHARLTON Published April 23, 2020 at 9:19 PM   Trump’s criticism adds to tough choices in Georgia reopening Published April 23, 2020 at 7:42 PM   Somber Congress delivers nearly $500B more in virus aid By  ANDREW TAYLOR and ALAN FRAM Published April 23, 2020 at 5:31 PM 1812 Fairfield Ave. Shreveport, LA 71101 (318) 222-1212 Contact Us FCC Public File publicfile@ksla.com (318) 222-1212 EEO Report Closed Captioning KSLA Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service FCC Public File publicfile@ksla.com (318) 222-1212 EEO Report Closed Captioning KSLA Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service