Credit report monitoring - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Credit report monitoring From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. Please improve this article or discuss the issue on the talk page. Credit report monitoring is the monitoring of your credit history in order to detect any suspicious activity or change in your credit history. Companies offer such service on a subscription basis, typically granting you: regular access to your credit history, alerts of critical changes to your credit history, and additional services. Credit monitoring can help you detect credit related fraud and identity theft. One of the more popular firms is Freecreditreport.com, best known for its humorous commercials featuring a singer who, because of his failure to monitor his credit rating, finds himself in embarrassing situations (such as being forced to buy a used subcompact, the only car he could afford on his poor rating). In the U.S. whenever obtaining your credit history, or credit monitoring, such services are typically available either as 1-Bureau service (with data access to only one of the 3 national credit reporting bureaus), or 3-Bureau service (with access to data to all 3 national credit reporting bureaus). It is often advisable to see data with all 3 bureaus (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion) to detect identity theft. Companies providing credit monitoring will typically alert you to important activity such as credit inquiries, public records, delinquencies, negative information, employment changes, new accounts and other changes to your credit history. Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit_report_monitoring" Category: Credit Hidden category: Articles with limited geographic scope Views Article Discussion Edit this page History Personal tools Log in / create account Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Search   Interaction About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact Wikipedia Donate to Wikipedia Help Toolbox What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Printable version Permanent link Cite this page This page was last modified on 11 February 2009, at 18:17. All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License. (See Copyrights for details.) Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a U.S. registered 501(c)(3) tax-deductible nonprofit charity. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers