UROD - Genetics Home Reference     A service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine Home   Search   Conditions   Genes   Understand Genetics   Resources   Glossary   About   Help         UROD Related Condition(s) Quick links to this topic Gene Tests DNA test labs PubMed Recent literature OMIM Genetic disorder catalog Gene databases Tools for researchers UROD Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase How does the UROD gene product normally function? The UROD gene produces an enzyme called uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase. This enzyme is responsible for the fifth step in heme production. Heme is the portion of hemoglobin that carries oxygen in the blood from the lungs to the rest of the body. Each of the steps in heme production is controlled by a separate gene (see below). Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase causes the removal of carbon and oxygen from uroporphyrinogen III (the product of the fourth step in the production of heme) to form coproporphyrinogen III. Three additional enzymes must modify this product before it becomes heme. The following genes are related to UROD. ALAD:aminolevulinate, delta-, dehydratase ALAS1:aminolevulinate, delta-, synthase 1 ALAS2:aminolevulinate, delta-, synthase 2 (sideroblastic/hypochromic anemia) CPO:coproporphyrinogen oxidase (coproporphyria, harderoporphyria) FECH:ferrochelatase (protoporphyria) HMBS:hydroxymethylbilane synthase PPOX:protoporphyrinogen oxidase UROS:uroporphyrinogen III synthase (congenital erythropoietic porphyria) What conditions are related to the UROD gene? hepatoerythropoietic porphyria - caused by mutations in the UROD gene At least 11 mutations in the UROD gene have been identified in families with hepatoerythropoietic porphyria. Most of these mutations are unique to this type of porphyria, and have not been found in porphyria cutanea tarda. Mutations that cause hepatoerythropoietic porphyria reduce the activity of the enzyme made by UROD to less than 10 percent of normal. Low levels of this enzyme prevent heme from being produced normally. As a result, byproducts of heme production called porphyrins build up in the body, causing the symptoms seen with this type of porphyria. porphyria cutanea tarda - caused by mutations in the UROD gene At least 28 mutations that can cause porphyria cutanea tarda have been identified in the UROD gene. These mutations usually reduce the activity of the enzyme made by UROD by 50 percent throughout the body. (In rare cases, the enzyme's activity is reduced only in the liver.) As a result, byproducts of heme production called porphyrins are allowed to build up in the body, particularly in the liver. This buildup, in combination with nongenetic factors (such as alcohol, smoking, certain hormones, excess iron, and viral infections), causes the symptoms seen in this type of porphyria. Where is the UROD gene located? 1p34 This means that the UROD gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 1 at position 34. See How do geneticists indicate the location of a gene? in Help Me Understand Genetics. Where can I find information about UROD? Gene Tests - DNA tests ordered by healthcare professionals PubMed - Recent literature OMIM - Genetic disorder catalog Gene databases - Tools for researchers What other names do people use for the UROD gene or gene products? UD - Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase Uroporphyrinogen Carboxy-Lyase Uroporphyrinogen III decarboxylase Uroporphyrinogen-III carboxy-lyase DCUP_HUMAN URO-D UPD See How are genetic conditions and genes named? in Help Me Understand Genetics. What if I still have specific questions about UROD? See How can I find a genetics professional in my area? in Help Me Understand Genetics. Ask the Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center. Where can I find general information about genes? Help Me Understand Genetics provides basic information about genetics in understandable language. What is DNA? What is a gene? How does a gene make a protein? How can gene mutations cause disorders? These links provide additional genetics resources that may be useful. Educational resources Human Genome Project Sources of genetic data (oriented to genetics researchers) What glossary definitions help with understanding UROD? chromosome ; congenital ; enzyme ; gene ; heme ; hemoglobin ; hormone ; mutation ; symptom You may find definitions for these and many other terms in the Genetics Home Reference Glossary.   Sources for this page (4 links)   The resources on this site should not be used as a substitute for professional medical care or advice. Users seeking information about a personal genetic condition should consult with a qualified healthcare professional.   Last updated: August 1, 2003 Last processed: December 19, 2003 This is a page from Genetics Home Reference. Contact Us Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications U.S. National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health Department of Health & Human Services Selection Criteria for Web Links - Copyright - Privacy - Accessibility