Fake: Lemon and turmeric do not prevent coronavirus - Oneindia News বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు English News India International Sports Business Features Videos Motivational Stories Videos City Bengaluru New Delhi Mumbai Chennai Kolkata Pune Salem Belgaum Ahmedabad Hyderabad Mangalore Sports PRO KABADDI LEAGUE Cricket Football Photos Videos Movies Bollywood Hollywood Tamil Telugu Malayalam Kannada Television Photo Gallery Lifestyle Beauty Cookery Insync Health Home n Garden Pregnancy n Parenting Relationship Auto Car News Bike News Reviews How-To Photos EMI Calculator Offbeat Latest New Cars Gadgets Mobile Tablet Reviews Gadgets Coupons Tata Cliq Amazon MMT Nykaa Jabong Flipkart Swiggy C'trip Bookmyshow Goibibo GoDaddy Bigbasket Money Education Travel Get Oneindia extension extension search notifications notifications_off You can manage your notification subscription by clicking on the icon. To start receiving timely alerts, as shown below click on the Green “lock” icon next to the address bar Click it and Unblock the Notifications Close X Close X To Start receiving timely alerts please follow the below steps: Click on the Menu icon of the browser, it opens up a list of options. Click on the “Options ”, it opens up the settings page, Here click on the “Privacy & Security” options listed on the left hand side of the page. Scroll down the page to the “Permission” section . Here click on the “Settings” tab of the Notification option. A pop up will open with all listed sites, select the option “ALLOW“, for the respective site under the status head to allow the notification. Once the changes is done, click on the “Save Changes” option to save the changes. Notifications Clear All No Notifications Trending Coronavirus For Quick Alerts Subscribe Now   COVID-19: Patient recovers in Himachal Pradesh View Sample For Quick Alerts ALLOW NOTIFICATIONS   For Daily Alerts Just In 18 min ago India gears up to tackle community spread of coronavirus 44 min ago Coronavirus outbreak: COVID-19 cases in India rises to 873, says Union Health Ministry 1 hr ago Coronavirus outbreak: Scientists in Pune capture first image of COVID-19 Must Watch Don't Miss Movies Saif Ali Khan On How He Is Spending Lockdown Time: Taimur, Bebo And I've Been Growing Tomato Plants Sports La Liga feature: Throwback to the best this season Finance We Have Entered Recession As Bad Or Worse Than 2009: IMF Lifestyle 9 Ways In Which You Can Stay Calm During A Difficult Situation Automobiles 2020 Maruti Suzuki Celerio X BS6 Launched In India: Prices Start At Rs 4.90 Lakh Technology Google Duo Supports Up To 12 Participants In Group Calls Amidst Coronavirus Lockdown Travel 10 Best Family Friendly Destinations To Visit In April In India Education Coronavirus Outbreak: NTA Helpline Numbers Released For JEE Main & NEET Aspirants News India Fake: Lemon and turmeric do not prevent coronavirus India oi-Vicky Nanjappa By Vikash Aiyappa | Published: Saturday, March 28, 2020, 11:04 [IST] New Delhi, Mar 28: Lemon and turmeric have good health properties. While you must consume them, please do not go by rumours that state it will cure you of coronavirus. There is a rumour on the internet that says that consuming lemon and turmeric will prevent or cure coronavirus. There is no specific evidence that lemon or turmeric prevents COVID-19. However it is recommended to consume adequate fruit and vegetable as part of a healthy diet. Beware: These websites are spreading fake information on coronavirus As of now there is no vaccine for the coronavirus. The several advisories suggest social distancing and washing your hands regularly to prevent coronavirus. If you any symptoms, then please consult your doctor, instead of believing rumours on the internet and worsening it for yourself. More CORONAVIRUS News India gears up to tackle community spread of coronavirus Coronavirus outbreak: COVID-19 cases in India rises to 873, says Union Health Ministry Coronavirus outbreak: Scientists in Pune capture first image of COVID-19 COVID-19: Lockdown in Russia begins today Online SAARC platform proposed by India to fight coronavirus Coronavirus outbreak: Supreme Court's Offices of Registry to remain close till April 15 COVID-19: Patient recovers in Himachal Pradesh Five including three children in WB test positive for COVID-19 Operation Namaste: The Indian Army’s war against coronavirus Coronavirus outbreak: Is Uttar Pradesh govt seeking revenge on CAA protesters during pandemic? Odisha fears Stage 3 of COVID-19 after 60-year-old with no recent travel history tests positive Cat found infected with coronavirus in Belgium For Breaking News and Instant Updates Allow Notifications You have already subscribed Comments Read more about: coronavirus prevention turmeric rumours fake news buster Story first published: Saturday, March 28, 2020, 11:04 [IST] Other articles published on Mar 28, 2020 MHA advisory tells states to prevent exodus of migrant labourers amidst COVID-19 lockdown Beware: These websites are spreading fake information on coronavirus With nowhere to go, stranded 19 Indian passengers at Dubai airport provided hotel rooms, food Featured Posts For Daily Alerts Oneindia in Other Languages বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు Explore Oneindia News India Sports Videos Cricket Features Coupons Business International Football Follow Oneindia Daily Updates About Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Apps | RSS | Advertise with Us | Work for Us | Contact Us | Feedback | Sitemap | Cookie Policy © One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. All Rights Reserved. The "ONEINDIA" word mark and logo are owned by One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. Close Get Instant News Updates Enable x Notification Settings X Time Settings Don't Block Block for 8 hours Block for 12 hours Block for 24 hours Dont send alerts during 1 am 2 am 3 am 4 am 5 am 6 am 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm 11 pm 12 am to 1 am 2 am 3 am 4 am 5 am 6 am 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm 11 pm 12 am Switch Off Clear My notification inbox Done Clear Notification X Do you want to clear all the notifications from your inbox? Yes No Settings X 0 No New Notifications X We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. This includes cookies from third party social media websites and ad networks. Such third party cookies may track your use on Oneindia sites for better rendering. Our partners use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on Oneindia website. However, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Learn more Change Settings Continue X