NaNoWriMo Teens community! | NaNoWriMo Teens community! Home Forum How to post your story Stories Posted Contests! Leave me some feedback! Hi, everyone! Hi, and welcome to this new NaNoWriMo Teen community that I've built. There was some talk of making one in the NaNo forums. So... If you're looking for a place to complain about homework and parents, post your writing and get feedback, or just hang out with other teens who are just as obsessed with writing as you are, then you have just stumbled upon the 'write' place! Join my email list by emailing me at nanowrimoteens@gmail.com and request to be added to the email list! You'll recieve notifications on new stuff and contests, which I hope to hold sometime soon. Just thought that you guys might want to know: because this isn't an independent website, when you register, you're registering for every other website that freewebs provides, also, so you can access any other website provided by freewebs with your username for here. This doesn't mean that every freewebs website will be sending you emails. That would be really annoying if they did. News March 26th- If you google 'NaNoWriMo Teens' we come up as first. Yay for us!   January 24th, 2008- Don't forget to enter the contest! It closes in four days!  January 8th, 2008- Have you commented on one of the posted stories yet? If you haven't yet, you should. All of it is really good writing and one of the core reasons that I created this site is so we can get feedback on our writing. GET COMMENTING NOW! January 1st, 2008- Check out the new contests page! December 31st, 2007- I just updated the How To Post Your Story page. When submitting a story, you should include your NaNoWriMo username unless you want to be anonymous. Sorry I didn't say that before! Happy New Year, everyone! December 25th, 2007- Happy Holidays, everyone! There has been a report of glitches while trying to post your stories. I'm going to create a live journal account (I would use my own technology, but I'm not that computerly skilled) and you guys can NaNoMail me stories that you want up and I'll post them there and link them on the site. For more info, visit the How To Post Your Story page. I've already posted a story of my own. December 24th- Site launched. Any suggestions for what could be added to this site? And I started organizing the forums, but I gotta go to bed now. I'll mess around with different forum stuff and designs in the morning. All rights reserved. © 2007. All stories posted belong soly to the authors. We are not reponsible for any offensive or inapropriate material posted. Create a free website at Webs.com 