Wisconsin Circuit Court Access The Consolidated Court Automation Programs (CCAP) Wisconsin Circuit Court Access Simple Search Advanced Search Judgment Search Reports FAQs Links Help Home Help for Wisconsin Circuit Court Access (WCCA) Wisconsin Circuit Court Access (WCCA) allows attorneys, abstractors, court staff, law enforcement, and the general public access to Circuit Court cases. Because of statutory requirements, certain case types are not available using WCCA. While some counties have loaded historical cases (Door County has probate cases going back to 1859), most counties have data going back to the time when they began using CCAP's Case Management System. To view any cases not available on WCCA, visit the Clerk of Court's office in the county where the case took place. See When counties began using CCAP. Simple Search Advanced Search Docketed Judgment Search Report Selection General Information WCCA allows users to search for cases, civil judgments, and generate reports, such as attorney calendars. Navigate to the various selection windows using the Navigation bar at the top of each window. To do an advanced case search, select 'Advanced Search'. To use WCCA, you must enter data into one of the selection windows and select the [Search] button. Any results display in a list. To view the details of the record, select the link. For example, on a Simple Case Search, you will retrieve a list of cases. To view a case, select the Case Number link. If your search results in multiple rows, you can move through the records by selecting the Next or Previous link. To return to the list, select the Return to List link. Some WCCA reports and the case court record also display in PDF format. To view the PDF version of the page, select the PDF Version link. Simple Search Party Name The simple search allows you to easily search for parties on circuit court cases. You can search statewide for parties. If you are searching statewide, you must select Statewide and enter at least 3 characters in the Last Name of the Party Name field followed by the wildcard symbol '*'. You must also enter at least 3 characters of the first or middle name in the Party Name field, which may also be followed by a wildcard '*'. Provide as much information as possible, as the results will return faster and there will be fewer records to sort through. If your search runs too long, you will need to re-submit your search with more details. Business Name When searching for a business, you must select either Statewide or a County and enter at least 3 characters of the business name in the Business Name field, followed by the wildcard symbol '*'. Provide as much information as possible, as the results will return faster and there will be fewer records to sort through. If your search runs too long, you will need to re-submit your search with more details. Case Number Wisconsin Circuit Court case numbers consist of a four-digit year, a two-character (alpha) case type, and a six-digit number. To search a case number, enter a case number in the box provided. Case numbers may be entered such that the century part of the four-digit year and any leading zeros of the six-digit number can be omitted. Ex: 02cf1 will be converted to 2002CF000001. You must select a county when using Case number. Wild card searches are not supported for Case number. Birth Date Enter Month, Date and Year in the MM/DD/YY format. When Birth Date is entered, a Party Name must be used. Not all party entries will have a corresponding birth date, especially on civil-type cases. Try using Party name without Birth date and only use Birth date when you need to further limit your search. The full birth date will display on criminal cases. For other case types, you will only see the month and year of birth. Top Advanced Search Party Name Use Party name to search for cases by a name. For criminal, traffic, and forfeiture cases, the name search only looks for defendant party types. If you want to search statewide, you must select Statewide and enter at least 3 characters in the Last Name of the Party Name field followed by the wildcard symbol '*'. You must also enter at least 3 characters of the first or middle name in the Party Name field, which may also be followed by a wildcard '*'. Provide as much information as possible, as the results will return faster and there will be fewer records to sort through. If your search runs too long, you will need to re-submit your search with more details. If you want to search in a county, you must select a County and enter at least 3 characters in the Last Name of the Party Name field followed by the wildcard symbol '*'. You must also enter at least 3 characters of either a first or middle name in the Party Name field. When searching for a business, you must select either Statewide or a County and enter at least 3 characters of the business name in the Business Name field, followed by the wildcard symbol '*'. Provide as much information as possible, as the results will return faster and there will be fewer records to sort through. If your search runs too long, you will need to re-submit your search with more details. The Party name search looks for any matching aliases. Alias types are: Also known as, adoptive name, doing business as, formerly doing business as, now known as, previously known as, personal representative, and true name. Middle Name/Initial Use this checkbox when you want records to display that match the middle initial you entered into the middle name field and those records that do not contain a middle name or initial. If the "Also Show Those With No Middle Name/Initial" checkbox is checked, you must enter a complete First Name and a middle name/initial. Top Birth Date Enter Month, Date and Year in the MM/DD/YY format. When Birth Date is entered, a Party Name must be used. Not all party entries will have a corresponding birth date, especially on civil-type cases. Try using Party name without Birth Date and only use Birth Date when you need to further limit your search. The full birth date will display on criminal cases. For other case types, you will only see the month and year of birth. Note: If Birth Date is used, the Party Name must be matched to the party birth date, and the alias name to the alias birth date. If the alias birth date is different than the party birth date on a case, and you enter the party name and the alias birth date, your search will not return the case. Top County Select Statewide to search all counties, or select a specific county. You must select a county when using Prosecuting Attorneys, Issuing Agencies, Case number, and Class code. Top Case Number Wisconsin Circuit Court case numbers consist of a four-digit year, a two-digit case type, and a six-digit number. To select a case number, select from the "year" and "case type" drop-down menus, and enter the number. You must select a county when using Case number. WCCA will fill in any zeros to the left of your number, so if the number is 1998TR000001, enter 1 in the number field. To search for a range of cases, enter a number in the second entry field. The second number must be larger than the first. For example, to search from 1998CF000001 to 1998CF000099, select 1998 from the first drop-down list, CF from the second drop-down list, enter 1 in the first text-entry field, and 99 in the second text-entry field. If you are using Case Number, you do not need to select a Case Type because case type is part of the case number. Top Case Type The "case type" drop-down menu contains six case type groups and corresponding individual case types. The case type groups are: Civil Civil, Family, Habitual traffic offender, and Small claims Criminal Criminal felony, Criminal misdemeanor, and Criminal traffic Group file/ Miscellaneous Commitment of an inmate, Construction lien, Condominium lien, Foreign judgments, Group file, Hospital lien, Incarcerated person, Joint tenancy, Mechanic's Lien, Tribal court orders, Transcript of judgment,Tax warrant, Unemployment compensation, and Worker's compensation Probate Informal Probate, Probate, and Wills Traffic and Forfeiture Criminal traffic, Forfeiture, and Traffic When searching using case type, county and additional criteria must be provided. It is not necessary to select a Case Type when using Case Number. If you do, your case type must match the case type in the Case Number field. Top Case Status Select Active cases, which includes those with a status of Filed only, Open, Post judgment, and Reopened, or select a specific case status from the following: Closed, Filed only, Open, Post judgment, or Reopened. Filing date To select by filing date, enter Month, Date and Year in the MM/DD/YY format. For a filing date range, select the period you want from the "for a period of" drop-down menu. Top Class Code Enter a Class Code to limit your search to cases with specific Class Codes. You must enter the complete class code. For a window containing class codes and class code descriptions, select the Class Code link next to the Class Code selection field. When searching using Class Code in addition to selecting a county, you must select at least one of these items: Party name Case number Prosecuting attorney Issuing agency Filing date Citation number JUSTIS ID Old case number DA case number State Bar ID number Top Old Case number Enter the old case number to return a case filed under a different numbering system. You must enter the complete old case number. The Old Case Number field is intended for court staff, law enforcement and attorneys. Not all counties use this field. Top State Bar ID number Enter the attorney's state bar ID number to return a case list for that attorney. You must enter the complete State Bar ID number. By default, this search does not include prosecuting attorneys. Select the Prosecuting Attorney radio button to search for prosecuting attorneys. Top Citation number Enter the citation number. Citation numbers may not exactly match what appears on the citation. For example, the citation may read X123456-0 but be entered into the system as X123456, so you may have to try different formats to match the numbers. Possible formats include X111111-1, 111111-1, and X111111. Arrest Tracking Number JUSTIS ID Enter the defendant's JUSTIS ID number to return a case list for the defendant. You must enter the complete JUSTIS ID. The JUSTIS ID field is intended for court staff, law enforcement and attorneys in Milwaukee County. Top Booking ORI DA Case Number Enter the DA Case Number to return that case. You must enter the complete DA Case Number. The DA Case Number field is intended for court staff, law enforcement and attorneys. Top Offense Date Prosecuting Attorney To obtain a list of Prosecuting attorneys, select a county and select the [Get a list of Prosecuting Attorneys by County] button. The selection screen reappears with "Prosecuting Attorney" and "Issuing Agency" drop-down menus containing all the Prosecuting Attorneys and Issuing Agencies for the selected county. Select a Prosecuting Attorney from the drop-down menu, fill in other search criteria, and select [Search] to obtain a list of cases for the selected attorney. Use the State Bar ID No. search for a list of cases by party attorneys. Top Issuing Agency To obtain a list of Issuing agencies, select a county and select the [Get a list of Issuing Agencies by County] button. The selection screen reappears with Prosecuting Attorney and Issuing Agency drop-down menus containing all the Prosecuting Attorneys and Issuing Agencies for the selected county. Select an issuing agency from the drop-down menu, fill in other search criteria, and select [Search] to obtain a list of cases for the selected agency. Top Docketed Civil Judgment Search Select Docketed Civil Judgment Search to search for docketed civil judgments using a wide range of criteria, including judgment party name, judgment date, satisfaction date, and docket date. The Civil Judgment details window displays judgment information -- it does not display complete case information. It is intended for use by abstractors. This search will only return judgments with a docket date. Top Report Selection Select Reports to generate one of these reports: The Attorney Calendar displays activities for the given attorney over a date range. You must select either prosecuting attorney or party attorney. The Civil Judgment Events Report displays civil judgment events for the selected date range. The Court Official Calendar displays scheduled activities for the selected court official over the selected date range. The Criminal Summary Report displays information on all criminal cases for the selected defendant. The Docketed Civil Judgments Report displays a list of civil judgments the selected docket date range. The Docketed Civil Judgments Report by Judgment Date displays docketed civil judgments on cases for the selected judgment date range. The Issuing Agency Calendar displays a list of scheduled activities over the selected date range for a selected issuing agency. The Court Calendar displays a list of scheduled activities over the selected date range for the selected county. You can limit results by Court Official and Prosecuting Attorney. This calendar also displays the initial charge. Top