NOT REAL NEWS: Another week of false coronavirus content - SFGate Sign In Home Contact SFGATE Classifieds About SFGATE About SFGATE FAQ SFGate Newsletters SFGate Staff Careers Site Index Hearst Ad Choices Advertise with Us More on Advertising More on Advertising Place a Classified Ad About Our Ads Public Notices Local Business Directory Place an Obituary Gate List Privacy Notice Terms of Use Newsletters Do Not Sell My Info Contact SFGATE Customer Support Sign up for SFGATE Newsletters Folllow SFGATE on Facebook Advertise with SFGATE News Bay Area Election 2020 California Nation World Politics Crime Business Business Business Section Technology Jobs Public Notices Sponsored Content MBA by the Bay VisionSF Obituaries Over 10,000 New Mexico residents file for unemployment Wolf retrenches sweeping order, amid complaints, lawsuits Quick flip as 'Onward' goes from movie theaters to homes Alaska governor urges supplemental dividend in aid proposal Sports 49ers Raiders Giants A's Warriors Soccer Sharks Golf TV Listings College Preps Jeremy Lin is tired of the President's rhetoric Saints head coach Sean Payton says he tested positive for The 49ers suddenly have the 13th pick in the draft. What should Sabrina Ionescu headlines AP All-America women’s basketball Local Locals Money Things to Do Neighborhoods Exercise FAQ: All your questions on keeping fit during the SF air pollution is 38% lower than normal, but will it last? San Francisco says bike repair shops are 'essential' and will Former primary school turned NYC-style condo for sale for $1.6M culture Events Entertainment Entertainment Entertainment News The Daily Dish Movies Music & Nightlife Performance Art Comics Datebook TV Horoscope Dear Abby Crosswords & Puzzles Things To Do Offbeat Tech Cannabis California now allows cocktail and spirit home delivery from your Oakland-based online music seller will stop taking revenues for "I am not a virus": East Bay coronavirus short film captures The latest from Dear Abby Commuting Public Transit Ride-Sharing Traffic Drivers Bikes & Scooters Cars BART to reduce hours after losing 90% of ridership Golden Gate Bridge losing $300,000 a day in toll money Tesla factory cutting workforce, but staying open amid How BART, Caltrain, Muni and other transit will be impacted by Food + Drink Restaurants Reservations Beer News Chronicle Wine Competition California now allows cocktail and spirit home delivery from your 7 Top Winery Concerts You Can’t Miss in August and September You can still get fresh produce from these local farms during How you can help your favorite local bar or brewery right now Travel City Guides Weekend Getaways Local Travel Tips and Hacks Wine Country Napa Reno-Tahoe Hawaii Mexico SF Insider: Things to do Monterey-Carmel Chris McGinnis' Travel Tips SFO postpones move to Harvey Milk Terminal 1 amid coronavirus The ultimate guide to Livermore's top wineries (The Press) Up to half of San Francisco hotels could close within 2 weeks 'A hopeful change' as 3 Chinese airlines resume SFO flights Real Estate New Homes Open Homes The Walk-Through Luxury On the Block Rentals Mortgage Rates Place an ad Neighborhood Guides Former primary school turned NYC-style condo for sale for $1.6M Could VR home tours be a real estate solution in a coronavirus Price Point: $3.495 million in Berkeley Five-bedroom with hot tub, Pacific Ocean views open Sunday in Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Business Fallout: United warns of layoffs, Target raises pay 1st Ohio coronavirus death; 11 nursing home cases suspected Iran's leaders take upbeat tone even as virus deaths climb Mississippi expands virus testing, distributes medical gear MenuSections FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE Santa Clara Co. reports 2 more deaths, bringing total to 8 3:08 PM 3:08 PM College Board tells students AP tests will be taken from home 2:46 PM 2:46 PM Virus prompts US and Mexico to restrict border travel 2:45 PM 2:45 PM As virus grips nation, advocates move to halt evictions 3:29 PM 3:29 PM Coronavirus kills 4th person in NJ family; several ill COVID-19 in California: The latest number of cases and deaths https://www.sfgate.com/news/article/NOT-REAL-NEWS-Another-week-of-false-coronavirus-15146832.php NOT REAL NEWS: Another week of false coronavirus content Beatrice Dupuy and Arijeta Lajka, Associated Press Updated 3:20 pm PDT, Friday, March 20, 2020 FILE - In this Friday, March 20, 2020 file photo, a member of the New Jersey National Guard helps direct traffic at COVID-19 drive-through testing center in Paramus, N.J. On Friday, March 20, 2020, The Associated Press reported on stories circulating online incorrectly asserting that within 48-72 hours the president will evoke what is called the Stafford Act, will order a two week mandatory quarantine for the nation, and that the National Guard will mobilize and martial law will go into effect. The National Security Council knocked down the rumors on Twitter. “As we saw over the wkend, disinfo is being spread online about a supposed national lockdown and grounding flights. Be skeptical of rumors. Make sure you’re getting info from legitimate sources," the council tweeted. less FILE - In this Friday, March 20, 2020 file photo, a member of the New Jersey National Guard helps direct traffic at COVID-19 drive-through testing center in Paramus, N.J. On Friday, March 20, 2020, The ... more Photo: Seth Wenig, AP Photo: Seth Wenig, AP Image 1 of / 7 Caption Close Image 1 of 7 FILE - In this Friday, March 20, 2020 file photo, a member of the New Jersey National Guard helps direct traffic at COVID-19 drive-through testing center in Paramus, N.J. On Friday, March 20, 2020, The Associated Press reported on stories circulating online incorrectly asserting that within 48-72 hours the president will evoke what is called the Stafford Act, will order a two week mandatory quarantine for the nation, and that the National Guard will mobilize and martial law will go into effect. The National Security Council knocked down the rumors on Twitter. “As we saw over the wkend, disinfo is being spread online about a supposed national lockdown and grounding flights. Be skeptical of rumors. Make sure you’re getting info from legitimate sources," the council tweeted. less FILE - In this Friday, March 20, 2020 file photo, a member of the New Jersey National Guard helps direct traffic at COVID-19 drive-through testing center in Paramus, N.J. On Friday, March 20, 2020, The ... more Photo: Seth Wenig, AP NOT REAL NEWS: Another week of false coronavirus content 1  /  7 Back to Gallery A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue stories and visuals of the week. None of these are legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked them out. Here are the real facts: ___ CLAIM: Please be advised that within 48-72 hours the president will evoke what is called the Stafford Act. The president will order a two week mandatory quarantine for the nation. The National Guard will mobilize and martial law will go into effect. Stock up on whatever you need to make sure you have an adequate supply of everything. THE FACTS: Screenshots of text messages are circulating in group chats and on social media warning that the U.S. will go into lockdown and that martial law will go in effect. The texts are often attributed to a friend of a friend or a relative who knows someone working in an official capacity for the U.S. government or a medical institution. They claim the government — sometimes federal, sometimes state or local — is about to put a quarantine in place and people won’t be allowed to leave their homes for weeks. The National Security Council knocked down the rumors on Twitter. “As we saw over the wkend, disinfo is being spread online about a supposed national lockdown and grounding flights. Be skeptical of rumors. Make sure you’re getting info from legitimate sources," the council tweeted Thursday The texts first emerged on a local level with messages saying that New York and Washington state would go under lockdown, with later claims suggesting that the whole nation would enforce a lockdown. President Donald Trump said at a briefing Friday that he has no plans for a national lockdown at this time. "I don't think we'll ever find that necessary," he told reporters. ___ CLAIM: Using a blow dryer to shoot hot air into your sinuses will kill the new coronavirus. THE FACTS: Medical professionals said taking such action would be dangerous and would not kill the new coronavirus. Social media users are sharing clips from a 6-minute video that suggests that heat kills the coronavirus and applying heat to your nose will help eliminate it. The false claim is one of many around the new virus which doctors are actively trying to debunk. “False! Please don’t. Our nose carries bacteria, as part of normal flora. Those bacteria may get confused,” tweeted Faheem Younus, who specializes in infectious diseases at the University of Maryland. The World Health Organization has said that hand dryers cannot kill the new coronavirus and noted that the virus can still be transmitted in hot and humid climates. Dr. Jen Caudle, a family physician and associate professor at Rowan University in New Jersey, also confirmed that blowing hot air into a nose will not prevent or cure the new coronavirus. “Depending on how hot the blow dryer gets, I would be concerned with some adverse effects,” she said. Doctors like Younus and Caudle are using their social media platforms to debunk myths around the virus that has infected more than 200,000 worldwide. ___ CLAIM: Research by scientists at the University of Queensland in Australia has proven that bananas bolster the immune system due to the super source of vitamin B-6 and helps prevent coronavirus. THE FACTS: As researchers rush to develop a vaccine to stop the spread of the coronavirus, a video circulating on social media falsely claimed they had found a tie between preventing the virus and bananas. It's not true. The 58-second video takes footage from an ABC Australia news segment, which aired in January about research at the Queensland university to create a vaccine for the virus, and combines it with a Wall Street Journal video on research around the vaccine. It then adds images of bananas overlaid with text suggesting the benefits of bananas in combating the virus. The ABC Australia and The Wall Street Journal videos, which are both available online, make no reference to bananas preventing or killing the coronavirus. A University of Queensland spokesperson told The Associated Press in an email that the video is fake and said they strongly recommend people do not share it. The claim spread in the Philippines in March after officials in the country claimed that bananas could kill the virus. While bananas are a good source of nutrients, including vitamin B6, fiber and potassium, there is no evidence that bananas can prevent or kill coronavirus. ___ CLAIM: The first person to receive an experimental coronavirus vaccine during testing in Seattle is a crisis actor THE FACTS: All participants who volunteered for vaccine test being led by Kaiser Permanente Washington Research Institute in Seattle were screened and had to meet a set list of criteria. They were not hired as actors to simulate a role. After researchers began the first round of testing on an experimental vaccine, posts began circulating on social media claiming the first person tested was a crisis actor. To support the claim, the posts falsely suggested that volunteers were injected with saline and that a needle not used for vaccines was used. Both are false. The AP was granted exclusive access to observe the first injections. No saline shots were given as part of the study and photos taken by the AP confirm that the vaccine was given by intramuscular injection. To find participants, Kaiser Permanente advertised for volunteers in the Seattle area. Subjects were screened by phone, and had to meet a set list of criteria. Those who met the criteria were then medically assessed in person at the Kaiser Permanente facility. Some posts making the false crisis actor claim featured photos of Jennifer Haller, the first person to receive the test vaccine. The AP observed Haller, an operations manager at a small tech company, as she received the injection in an exam room. The testing that began Monday marked just the beginning of a series of studies in people needed to prove whether the shots are safe and could work. Even if the research goes well, a vaccine would not be available for widespread use for 12 to 18 months, said Dr. Anthony Fauci of the U.S. National Institutes of Health. ___ CLAIM: Coronavirus remains in the throat for four days, drinking water and gargling with warm water mixed with salt or vinegar eliminates the virus. THE FACTS: Medical officials said there is no evidence that gargling with the mixture will combat the novel coronavirus. False posts containing the claim have been shared widely on social media. One widely shared post states: “Corona virus before it reaches the lungs it remains in the throat for four days and at this time the person begins to cough and have throat pains. If he drinks water a lot and gargling with warm water & salt or vinegar eliminates the virus. Spread this information because you can save someone with this information.” Dr. Robert Legare Atmar, Infectious Disease expert at the Baylor College of Medicine, told the AP while the virus may be detected in the throat for at least a week after the onset of symptoms, the information about gargling is false. “There is no evidence for coronavirus or other respiratory viruses that drinking water or gargling protect against subsequent infection and illness,” he said. “In fact, doing these activities might give people a false sense of security, which would be dangerous if it resulted in behavior that is more risky.” It can be detected in the throat for at least a week after symptom onset, at least in some people, Atmar said. ___ CLAIM: Parents who can’t find or afford baby formula right now, Enfamil and Gerber will send you a free case of formula. THE FACTS: As consumers emptied store shelves stocking up on necessities in anticipation of shortages around the novel coronavirus, social media posts claimed that makers of baby formula would help ease any scarcity by sending a case of formula to those in need. “For parents who cannot find formula in stores for their babies right now, grab the can for formula that you do have and call the number on the back and they will send you a whole case during this time,” said one tweet posted just after midnight Monday. By Tuesday afternoon it had more than 21,000 shares and 16,000 likes. Both Gerber and Enfamil said the posts circulating online are not true, and emphasized they are working with retailers to keep shelves stocked. ___ This is part of The Associated Press' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform. ___ Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://apnews.com/APFactCheck ___ Follow @APFactCheck on Twitter: https://twitter.com/APFactCheck Most Popular 1 Santa Clara Co. reports 2 more deaths, bringing total to 8 2 CHP investigating multi-vehicle crash, reported carjacking on Bay Bridge 3 COVID-19 in California: The latest number of cases and deaths 4 Gavin Newsom extends shelter-in-place order to all of California 5 Feinstein denies any insider trading after wave of criticism 6 My apocalyptic bike ride down Valencia Street with my son 7 Italy sees biggest day-to-day rise in coronavirus deaths 8 Not everyone is respecting Safeway's seniors-only hours 9 All your questions on keeping fit during the shutdown answered 10 Newsom's wife met with scorn for toilet paper tweet 11 Coronavirus kills 4 in a single family; several remain ill 12 California rushes to prevent virus spread among the homeless 13 Opinion: Don't Let Trump Off the Hook 14 18-year-old charged with murder for fatal stabbing of friend 15 How to get fresh produce without stepping inside a grocery store LATEST NEWS CHP: Multi-vehicle crash, reported carjacking on Bay Bridge 'Chilling' plans: Who gets care when WA state hospitals reach... Pixar’s ‘Onward’ being released early on digital Italy sees biggest day-to-day rise in coronavirus deaths Sex offender in Redwood City arrested on multiple charges SFO postpones move to Harvey Milk Terminal 1 amid virus crisis Oakland teen charged in friend's slaying after argument about dog New restrictions coming on travel between the US and Mexico Income tax filing deadline moved to July 15 from April 15 View Comments © 2020 Hearst Communications, Inc. Logo Return to Top About Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Our Company The Press: Guide to Wine Country Green State: Cannabis Culture Careers Advertising Contact Customer Service Newsroom Contacts Connect Sign up for Email Alerts Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram CCPA Do Not Sell My Info QuickLinks Real Estate Summer Camp Guide Cars Jobs SF Marketplace Recruitment Home Services Obituaries Horoscopes Comics Dear Abby Weather Home Movies TV Earthquakes Wildfires Public Notice MBA by the Bay Hearst Newspapers © Copyright Hearst Communications, Inc.