MEDLINEplus Drug Information:

Nadolol

 Skip navigation Other drug names: A-Am  An-Az  B  C-Ch  Ci-Cz  D-Dh  Di-Dz  E  F  G  H  I-J  K-L  M-Mh  Mi-Mz  N-Nh  Ni-Nz  O  P-Pl  Pm-Pz  Q-R  S-Sn  So-Sz  T-To  Tp-Tz  U-V  W-Z  0-9 Nadolol (nay doe' lole) Brand name(s): Corgard Contents of this page: Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What storage conditions are needed for this medicine? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? IMPORTANT WARNING: Do not stop taking nadolol without talking to your doctor first. If nadolol is stopped suddenly, it may cause chest pain or heart attack in some people. Why is this medication prescribed? Nadolol is used to treat high blood pressure. It also is used to prevent angina (chest pain). It works by relaxing your blood vessels so your heart doesn't have to pump as hard. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Nadolol comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It usually is taken once a day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take nadolol exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Nadolol helps control your condition but will not cure it. Continue to take nadolol even if you feel well. Do not stop taking nadolol without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Nadolol also is used to treat abnormal heart rhythms and to prevent migraine headaches. Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this drug for your condition. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking nadolol, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to nadolol or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially medications for diabetes; medications for migraine headaches, asthma, allergies, or colds; other medications for heart disease or high blood pressure; reserpine; and vitamins. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had asthma or other lung disease, heart or kidney disease, diabetes, severe allergies, or thyroid problems. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking nadolol, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking nadolol. you should know that this drug may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this drug affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this drug. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Although side effects from nadolol are not common, they can occur. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness or lightheadedness excessive tiredness upset stomach vomiting diarrhea constipation cold hands and feet If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: difficulty breathing sore throat and fever unusual bleeding swelling of the feet or hands unusual weight gain chest pain slow, irregular heartbeat What storage conditions are needed for this medicine? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Throw away any medication that is outdated or no longer needed. Talk to your pharmacist about the proper disposal of your medication. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. Symptoms of overdose may include: dizziness fainting difficulty breathing or swallowing swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your doctor will need to determine your response to nadolol. Your doctor may ask you to check your pulse (heart rate). Ask your pharmacist or doctor to teach you how to take your pulse. If your pulse is faster or slower than it should be, call your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Last Revised - 01/01/2003 American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. Disclaimer The MedMaster™ Patient Drug Information database provides information copyrighted by the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc., Bethesda, Maryland Copyright© 2001. All Rights Reserved. Health Topics | Drug Information | Encyclopedia | Dictionary | News | Directories | Other Resources | Home Copyright | Privacy | Accessibility | Selection Guidelines U.S. National Library of Medicine | National Institutes of Health Page last updated: 02 December 2003