MEDLINEplus Drug Information:

Acebutolol

 Skip navigation Other drug names: A-Am  An-Az  B  C-Ch  Ci-Cz  D-Dh  Di-Dz  E  F  G  H  I-J  K-L  M-Mh  Mi-Mz  N-Nh  Ni-Nz  O  P-Pl  Pm-Pz  Q-R  S-Sn  So-Sz  T-To  Tp-Tz  U-V  W-Z  0-9 Acebutolol (a se byoo' toe lole) Brand name(s): Sectral Contents of this page: Why is this medication prescribed? How should this medicine be used? Other uses for this medicine What special precautions should I follow? What special dietary instructions should I follow? What should I do if I forget a dose? What side effects can this medication cause? What storage conditions are needed for this medicine? In case of emergency/overdose What other information should I know? IMPORTANT WARNING: Do not stop taking acebutolol without talking to your doctor first. If acebutolol is stopped suddenly, it may cause chest pain or heart attack in some people. Why is this medication prescribed? Acebutolol is used to treat high blood pressure. It relaxes your blood vessels so your heart doesn't have to pump as hard. Acebutolol also is used to treat an irregular heartbeat. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. How should this medicine be used? Acebutolol comes as a capsule to take by mouth. It usually is taken once or twice a day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take acebutolol exactly as directed. Do not take more or less of it or take it more often than prescribed by your doctor. Acebutolol controls your condition but does not cure it. Continue to take acebutolol even if you feel well. Do not stop taking acebutolol without talking to your doctor. Other uses for this medicine Acebutolol also is used to treat chest pain (angina). Talk to your doctor about the possible risks of using this drug for your condition. What special precautions should I follow? Before taking acebutolol, tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to acebutolol or any other drugs. tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially medications for migraine headaches, diabetes, asthma, allergies, colds, or pain; other medications for high blood pressure or heart disease; reserpine; and vitamins. tell your doctor if you have or have ever had heart, kidney, or liver disease; asthma or other lung diseases; diseases of the blood vessels; severe allergies; diabetes; or an overactive thyroid gland. tell your doctor if you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, or are breast-feeding. If you become pregnant while taking acebutolol, call your doctor. if you are having surgery, including dental surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are taking acebutolol. you should know that this drug may make you drowsy. Do not drive a car or operate machinery until you know how this drug affects you. remember that alcohol can add to the drowsiness caused by this drug. What special dietary instructions should I follow? Talk to your doctor before using salt substitutes containing potassium. If your doctor prescribes a low-salt or low-sodium diet, follow these directions carefully. What should I do if I forget a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed one. What side effects can this medication cause? Although side effects from acebutolol are not common, they can occur. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: dizziness lightheadedness excessive tiredness headache constipation diarrhea upset stomach muscle aches If you experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor immediately: shortness of breath or wheezing swelling of the feet and lower legs chest pain What storage conditions are needed for this medicine? Keep this medication in the container it came in, tightly closed, and out of reach of children. Store it at room temperature and away from excess heat and moisture (not in the bathroom). Throw away any medication that is outdated or no longer needed. Talk to your pharmacist about the proper disposal of your medication. In case of emergency/overdose In case of overdose, call your local poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. If the victim has collapsed or is not breathing, call local emergency services at 911. What other information should I know? Keep all appointments with your doctor and the laboratory. Your blood pressure should be checked regularly to determine your response to acebutolol. Your doctor may ask you to check your pulse (heart rate). Ask your pharmacist or doctor to teach you how to take your pulse. If your pulse is faster or slower than it should be, call your doctor. Do not let anyone else take your medication. Ask your pharmacist any questions you have about refilling your prescription. Last Revised - 01/01/2003 American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. Disclaimer The MedMaster™ Patient Drug Information database provides information copyrighted by the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc., Bethesda, Maryland Copyright© 2001. All Rights Reserved. Health Topics | Drug Information | Encyclopedia | Dictionary | News | Directories | Other Resources | Home Copyright | Privacy | Accessibility | Selection Guidelines U.S. National Library of Medicine | National Institutes of Health Page last updated: 02 December 2003