State Rep. Ron Liggett's Statehouse Report January 17, 2003 State Rep. Ron Liggett's Statehouse Report INDIANAPOLIS - With only two weeks gone in the 2003 session of the Indiana General Assembly, lawmakers already have seen two significant events take place. On Tuesday (January 14), Gov. Frank O'Bannon delivered his annual State of the State speech, and the deadline passed for representatives to file House bills. In all, 1,032 House bills and 10 House joint resolutions were filed for consideration in our chamber this session. That might sound like a lot, but it is a very typical number for a long legislative session. The State of the State address serves as the governor's blueprint for what he would like to see take place in 2003, and there were two items that dominated the talk: the biennial state budget and the Energize Indiana job creation plan. In the weeks to come, both proposals will get a full airing in House committees as the legislative process begins to work. The various components of Energize Indiana will be discussed in several different committees, then turned over to the Ways and Means Committee, which will look at funding for the plan as part of writing a new state budget. The difficulty of the task facing lawmakers was reinforced by the budget proposed by the administration during the first week of session. While the plan does not call for a tax increase to finance state services, it provides no additional funding for those services, including education. Last week, I discussed the prominence that the budget and Energize Indiana will have during the 2003 session. With more than 1,000 House bills eligible for action, we will be looking at a number of different subjects. Following is a sample of what will be discussed: WORKING IN INDIANA -- Through Energize Indiana, we will be looking at programs to create better-paying jobs for Hoosiers, but there will be other initiatives considered to expand economic development and protect workers. This year will see another attempt to bring daylight-saving time to all of Indiana, as well as a plan to provide more road funding at the state and local level. Efforts will continue to protect the pensions of workers, and to provide additional assistance for those whose have lost their jobs and are looking for work. With the scandals at Enron and other places still fresh in the memory, corporate accountability will gain added attention. EDUCATION -- Along with the ongoing debate over school funding in Indiana, the effort to improve education will take place on several fronts. There will be an attempt to change the schedule for the ISTEP educational performance test from the fall to the spring of each year, and to expand testing to include all academic subjects. One bill would curtail extracurricular school activities by students during the testing period. There also will be an attempt to push for a wider availability of full-day kindergarten. PROTECTING CONSUMERS -- In recent sessions, lawmakers have attempted to protect the interests of consumers through passage of such things as the "no call" list to stop harassment by telemarketers. This year, we will consider penalties against those who circulate unsolicited or misleading commercial e-mails, better known as spam, and ways to get tougher against the rising crime of identity theft. Two practices that will get attention will be credit scoring, which is used to determine a person's eligibility for insurance coverage, and predatory lending, which targets home owners and those trying to buy their own homes. UTILITY REFORMS -- As always, we will be examining methods to protect the interests of utility customers by giving state regulators more authority. One such proposal would prevent a utility from turning off gas or electric service to a customer during the heating season if that person is eligible for and applied for emergency heating service. OTHER ISSUES -- There literally are no limits to the subjects that can be the focus of legislation. Bills have been introduced which would limit the use of cellular phones by motorists, place tighter restrictions on the activities of lobbyists and the amount of money spent on political campaigns, make a renewed effort to get uninsured motorists off the road, give students the chance to recite the Pledge of Allegiance and observe a moment of silence during each school day, and ban human cloning. You can look for bills that would create an amnesty program for individuals and businesses owing back taxes, delay the statewide property reassessment for a year, place restrictions on corporate welfare, reform the operations of day care centers to protect our children, improve safety for kids riding bicycles and mopeds, and we will continue to examine bills that help young people find a proper balance between work and school. In addition, legislation has been introduced to regulate violent video games, prohibit smoking on school buses, license such groups as electricians and massage therapists, ban the death penalty in Indiana, and protect a woman who is breast-feeding a child in public from being charged with public indecency.