Trump showcases idea heat, humidity could help fight virus - Westport News Subscribe Sign In Register Home Contact Us Advertise With Us FAQ's Privacy Notice Terms of Use 3 new coronavirus cases, 224 total in Westport Westport grounds drone plans to fight coronavirus amid privacy Over 200 confirmed coronavirus cases in Westport Westport coronavirus report: 198 confirmed cases News Sports Police Reports Community Celebrate Summer Events Comics SEEN: Westport Winter Market A Sunny Saturday at the Rinks Obituaries Opinion Real Estate Jobs Cars MenuSections https://www.westport-news.com/news/article/Trump-showcases-idea-heat-humidity-could-help-15222615.php Trump showcases idea heat, humidity could help fight virus Kevin Freking, Associated Press Updated 9:02 pm EDT, Thursday, April 23, 2020 President Donald Trump speaks about the coronavirus in the James Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House, Thursday, April 23, 2020, in Washington. President Donald Trump speaks about the coronavirus in the James Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House, Thursday, April 23, 2020, in Washington. Photo: Alex Brandon, AP Photo: Alex Brandon, AP Image 1 of / 3 Caption Close Image 1 of 3 President Donald Trump speaks about the coronavirus in the James Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House, Thursday, April 23, 2020, in Washington. President Donald Trump speaks about the coronavirus in the James Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House, Thursday, April 23, 2020, in Washington. Photo: Alex Brandon, AP Trump showcases idea heat, humidity could help fight virus 1  /  3 Back to Gallery WASHINGTON (AP) — The White House on Thursday pitched “emerging” research on the benefits of sunlight and humidity in diminishing the threat of the coronavirus as President Donald Trump encourages states to move to reopen their economies. Past studies have not found good evidence that the warmer temperatures and higher humidity of spring and summer will help tamp down the spread of the virus. But William Bryan of the Department of Homeland Security said at a White House briefing that there are “emerging results” from new research that suggest solar light has a powerful effect in killing the virus on surfaces and in the air. He said scientists have seen a similar effect from higher temperatures and humidity. A biocontainment lab in Maryland has been conducting testing on the virus since February, Bryan said. “The virus is dying at a much more rapid pace just from exposure to higher temperatures and just from exposure to humidity,” Bryan said. Bryan said having more knowledge about this could help governors when making decisions about how and when to open their state economies. However, he stressed that the emerging results of the light and heat studies do not replace social distancing recommendations. Trump, who has consistently looked for hopeful news about containing the virus, was asked if it was dangerous to make people think they would be safe by going outside in the heat, considering that so many people have died in Florida. “I hope people enjoy the sun. And if it has an impact, that’s great,” Trump replied, adding, “It’s just a suggestion from a brilliant lab by a very, very smart, perhaps brilliant man.” “I’m here to present ideas, because we want ideas to get rid of this thing. And if heat is good, and if sunlight is good, that’s a great thing as far as I’m concerned,” the president said. Trump noted that the researchers were also looking at the effects of disinfectants on the virus and wondered aloud if they could be injected into people, saying the virus “does a tremendous number on the lungs, so it would be interesting to check that.” Bryan said there was no consideration of that. The president has often talked up prospects for new therapies and offered rosy timelines for the development of a vaccine. Earlier in the month, scientific advisers told the White House there’s no good evidence yet that the heat and humidity of summer will rein in the virus without continued public health measures. Researchers convened by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine analyzed studies done so far to test virus survival under different laboratory conditions as well as tracking where and how COVID-19 has spread so far. “Given that countries currently in ‘summer’ climates, such as Australia and Iran, are experiencing rapid virus spread, a decrease in cases with increases in humidity and temperature elsewhere should not be assumed,” the researchers wrote earlier in April in response to questions from the White House Office of Science and Technology. In addition, the report cited the global lack of immunity to the new virus and concluded, “if there is an effect of temperature and humidity on transmission, it may not be as apparent as with other respiratory viruses for which there is at least some preexisting partial immunity.” They noted that during 10 previous flu pandemics, regardless of what season they started, all had a peak second wave about six months after the virus first emerged. In March, Dr. Michael Ryan, the World Health Organization’s emergencies chief. said, “We have to assume that the virus will continue to have the capacity to spread, and it’s a false hope to say yes, it will just disappear in the summertime like influenza.” Most Popular 1 Police use of drones to trace coronavirus spread sparks protest 2 Road realignment to cause 2 years of detours in Bridgeport 3 Judge: No release for accused child killer, three others 4 What should you do when you test negative for coronavirus? 5 Westport first town in CT to use drones to fight coronavirus 6 Truck down embankment closes part of I-95 south in Milford 7 Nursing home deaths investigated as some fail to report... View Comments © 2020 Hearst Communications, Inc. Logo Return to Top About Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Advertising Archives Contact FAQ Contact Us Connect Facebook Twitter Hearst Newspapers © Copyright Hearst Media Services Connecticut, LLC