Meningococcal Disease - Mississippi State Department of Health  Governor   Board of Health   State Health Officer   Administration   MS Health Facts   Information Desk   Search       Anthrax    Behavior Risk Factors    Bioterrorism & Emergency Preparedness    BSE    Cancer Registry    Disease Briefings    Campylobacteriosis    Chlamydia    Gonorrhea    Hepatitis    Herpes    Histoplasmosis    HIV/AIDS    Meningococcal Disease    Syphilis    TSE    Epidemiology    Health Alert Network    Immunization    Immunization Registry    Disparity Elimination    Press Releases    Preventive Block Grant    Psittacosis    Rabies    STD/HIV    Surveillance    Tuberculosis    West Nile Virus    Public Health Laboratory    Influenza    MMR    MSCPG-HIV    SARS    Smallpox Epidemiology  > Disease Briefings  > Meningococcal Disease Meningococcal Disease   Facts At a Glance Links to More Information Get in Touch · · · MENINGOCOCCAL DISEASE About the Disease Meningococcal disease, caused by Neisseria meningitidis, can cause either meningitis (also known as spinal meningitis) or sepsis. Meningitis is an infection of the covering of the brain and spinal cord, while sepsis is an infection of the blood. On average, 20-30 cases per year occur in Mississippi. Most often seen in young children, teens and young adults, up to 10% of the population carries the meningococcal bacteria and never become ill. Symptoms of those who do get sick include high fever, an intense headache, a stiff neck, nausea, confusion, difficulty looking at bright lights and sometimes a rash. Presence of the meningococcal bacteria is confirmed by growing bacteria from a sample of the patient's spinal fluid. The disease is treated with antibiotics. To prevent further transmission of the infection, close contacts of the patient are also given antibiotics, and in some cases vaccinated. When a case of meningococcal disease is diagnosed, it should be reported to the Mississippi State Department of Health. It is important that the disease be caught early and treated properly. Disease caused by the meningococcal bacteria can result in brain damage, hearing loss or a learning disability. 5-15% of those who develop sepsis or meningitis may die from the infection.   · · · AT A GLANCE What it is: Meningococcal disease – caused by the bacteria Neisseria meningitidis – can cause meningitis, (an infection of the covering of the brain and spinal cord), or sepsis (a blood infection). Transmission: Meningitis is contagious, but is not spread through casual contact. Breathing the same air as someone who is infected should not increase your risk of infection. Meningitis is spread through the exchange of respiratory and throat secretions. For that reason, all close contacts, including members of the same household, day care center and kissing partners should receive antibiotics to prevent infection. Peak time for the disease is in late winter and early spring. Symptoms: Patients with an illness caused by the meningococcal bacteria may have a sudden onset of high fever, intense headache, nausea, stiff neck, a rash, or the patient may suffer mental confusion. Patients may also experience discomfort looking into bright lights. It is more difficult to spot a child under two years of age with symptoms of meningitis. Often, the child will have fever and appear slower and lethargic or sleepy. The child may not eat, and may vomit. Treatment: Those who are infected are given antibiotics, as are close contacts of the infected. In some cases, select people are vaccinated. High risk groups: College freshmen in dormitories are at increased risk of infection, and should be educated about the vaccine and the disease. Persons with anatomic or functional asplenia (e.g., those with sickle cell disease) are also at higher risk and should be vaccinated. Other higher-risk groups include military recruits, refugees, microbiologists, smokers (and those exposed to second-hand smoke), as well as some overseas travelers. Some other countries (not the U.S) experience large, periodic epidemics. Travelers may call the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at 404-332-4565 to find out more about which geographic areas are having outbreaks. ^ Top     · · · LINKS For More Information The National Center for Disease Control MEDLINEplus, a service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine and the National Institutes of Health The American College Health Association – a good site for students. ^ Top   · · · CASES Meningococcal Disease Cases By Year « Top     · · · CONTACT Get in Touch To find out more, contact your local health office, or call our Health Info Hotline at 1-800-489-7670 ^ Top       email this page     print this page     back to previous page Mississippi State Department of Health   Site Map   Login