Breakthrough drug used to treat coronavirus is NOT part of Oxford University trial | Daily Mail Online   Home U.K. News Sports U.S. Showbiz Australia Femail Health Science Money Video Travel Columnists DailyMailTV Latest Headlines Coronavirus Royal Family Boris Johnson World News Arts Headlines Most read Wires Games My Profile Logout Login Feedback Saturday, Apr 18th 2020 7AM 49°F 10AM 47°F 5-Day Forecast Advertisement show ad Florida beach is crowded within 30 MINUTES of reopening despite state recording 1,413 new COVID-19 cases - its highest one-day increase since the pandemic crisis began  Donald Trump gives anti-lockdown protesters who ignore social distancing a free pass saying 'they've been treated a little bit rough' then links his attack on Virginia's governor to gun rights NOT the lockdown Is this proof 'live-saving' ventilators are actually deathtraps? Their success rate is appalling and medics are increasingly worried they may do more harm than good, disturbing report reveals Washington's Democratic governor Jay Inslee says 'unhinged' Donald Trump is 'fomenting domestic rebellion' and risking violence by backing lockdown rebels The US states planning to reopen: Texas becomes the first to partially lift coronavirus restrictions from April 20 - as Michigan, Wisconsin and Idaho have plans to reopen by May 1 Coronavirus may have started spreading as early as September and it may not have originated in Wuhan, say Cambridge researchers who are studying its mutations FDA says there is NO need to wash food packaging after returning from the grocery store Trump's new chief of staff Mark Meadows has 'cried in meetings and is overwhelmed by a permanent culture that revolves around the president's moods' US intelligence has ALREADY started a full-scale investigation into Wuhan lab and it's 'role in the virus' as the White House weighs up what punishment will be dished out to Beijing over 'cover up' Stanford University antibody testing finds California virus infections are 50 TIMES higher than reported - suggesting COVID-19 is more widespread across the US than previously thought  US government experiments with simulations to show the coronavirus can 'quickly' be destroyed by SUNLIGHT, but notes the results are yet to be proven  NASA and SpaceX set to launch the first manned mission from US soil in 10 years by sending astronauts to the ISS on May 27 Bill Gates believes it will take 18 months to develop a coronavirus vaccine but says money is no object and he's happy to keep writing cheques Kimberly Guilfoyle and Lara Trump are being paid $180,000 a year by the presidents's campaign manager for work on the reelection, report suggests 'I've got a young son I'd like to go to school!' Donald Trump says he wants Barron back in the classroom and laments 'I've been in the White House for months'  WHO warns there is 'no evidence' that antibody tests show coronavirus survivors are immune as Trump recommends they be used to relax social distancing rules  Thousands across the nation answer Trump's call to 'liberate' states from stringent virus lockdown as they stage raucous protests from Minnesota to California while defying social distancing orders  Mike Pence says there are enough tests for phase one reopening 'if state governors choose to do that' - but Dr. Birx says it's 'unclear' whether there is enough testing capacity for phase two  America's coronavirus death toll hits 37,308 with more than 4,300 probable deaths confirmed and more than 708,837 infected Homeland Security warns terrorists could strike grocery stores, hospitals, testing sites and gas stations during the pandemic to cause maximum chaos  Texas will be the first state to reopen starting with public parks and retailers NEXT WEEK if they can do curbside or home deliveries - but schools will remain closed Wisconsin student, 16, SUES sheriff for 'threatening to arrest her if she didn't remove Instagram posts about her recovery from COVID-19 after Spring Break trip because they were causing panic' Spain's coronavirus death toll tops 20,000 but parents and regional leaders still call to 'free our children!' after five-week confinement  Germany's coronavirus cases rise by 3,609 as nation suffers its fourth straight day of increased infections Previous Next Breakthrough anti-Ebola drug remdesivir that is found to help critically-ill patients recover from coronavirus is NOT part of UK's drug trials despite being tested on 100 NHS patients Anti-viral drug remdesivir has been undergoing trials in the US with success Manufacturer Gilead Sciences has also tried a series of small trials in the UK  But a UK study into treatments at the University of Oxford is not using the drug  Instead it is trialing four others including anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine  Learn more about how to help people impacted by COVID By James Wood and Vanessa Chalmers Health Reporter For Mailonline Published: 07:39 EDT, 18 April 2020 | Updated: 08:29 EDT, 18 April 2020 e-mail 10 shares 27 View comments A breakthrough anti-viral drug found to help critically-ill patients recover from coronavirus within a week is not part of a drug trial run by the University of Oxford to find a treatment, it has emerged.  The drug remdesivir, manufactured by pharmaceutical giant Gilead Sciences, has been undergoing trials in the US and smaller trials in the UK run by the Gilead itself, in which some severely ill patients had recovered rapidly enough to be taken off ventilators within 24 hours.  Gilead said yesterday that more than 100 patients had been recruited to trial the drug at 15 NHS centres and that results should be expected within weeks. But speaking on BBC Radio 4 this morning, Professor Peter Horby, who is leading the UK's recovery trial of drugs at the University of Oxford, said the drug was not part of the country's tests.  In the US, at the University of Chicago Medicine, 125 people with COVID-19 were recruited as part of global clinical trials for the drug. Of those people, 113 had severe disease.   All the patients were treated with daily infusions of remdesivir, an experimental drug first touted to treat Ebola which has been in the making for ten years.  Most of the patients have been discharged after their symptoms eased over a week, and only two patients have died. The drug remdesivir, manufactured by pharmaceutical giant Gilead Sciences, has been undergoing trials in the US and smaller trials in the UK run by the Gilead itself (pictured, a vial of the drug Remdesivir) Professor Horby said: 'So that drug is in a number of trials. There is a trial that's just finished in China and I think we will see the results of that fairly soon and it's also in trials in the UK led by the drug company and it's on trials in the US. But it's not currently in our trial.'  He added: 'I think we've got to be cautious. But yes, it is a drug that in the laboratory looks like it's got good activity. So we would just hope it has the same activity in people and patients.' RELATED ARTICLES Previous 1 2 Next Remdesivir anti-viral trial reports 'rapid recoveries' for... There is 'no evidence' that people who have survived... Police officers pay tribute to 'much-loved' married... Share this article Share WHAT ARE THE THREE MAIN CORONAVIRUS TRIALS IN THE UK? Principle  The Principle trial is studying people aged 50 to 64 who have COVID-19 symptoms and a chronic health condition such as heart disease, asthma or cancer.  It is unclear how many patients are taking part.  It is also open to those aged 65 or over, with or without other illnesses. The first drug that will be trialled is hydroxychloroquine, sold as Plaquenil. Other potential treatments will be used if they show promise in pre-clinical studies. The study is being run at the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) Research and Surveillance Centre (RSC) in Surrey. It will last until March next year. Recovery The Randomised Evaluation of COV-id19 thERapY (RECOVERY) trial is being run by the University of Oxford.  It will test the HIV drug lopinavir/ritonavir, marketed as Kaletra and Aluvia, hydroxychloroquine, a malaria medication sold as Plaquenil, and dexamethasone, a type of steroid use in a range of conditions to reduce inflammation. Almost 1,000 patients from 132 different hospitals have been already recruited in just 15 days. Thousands more are expected to join the trial in the coming weeks, making it the largest randomised controlled trial of potential COVID-19 treatments in the world. Definitive results on whether the treatments are safe and effective are expected within months and, if positive, they could potentially benefit hundreds of thousands of people worldwide.  REMAP-CAP The REMAP-CAP trial is an international effort, with more than 50 research teams around the world taking part.  It is looking specifically at patients who develop community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) as a result of viral infections.    The study will test 16 drugs, including  hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon beta, which have all shown promise in pre-clinical trials. Between 2,000 and 4,000 patients will be enrolled. The UK drug programme is called the RECOVERY Trial (The Randomised Evaluation of COV-id19 thERapY) and is the world's biggest single trial of drugs to treat the coronavirus. The university got the support of Chief Medical Officer Professor Chris Whitty and put out a plea to doctors around the country to enrol patients in the voluntary trial.   Volunteers have since joined the trial from more than 160 NHS trusts around the country and scientists are hopeful more people will continue to sign up.  Medics have not put a number on the amount of people the trial needs in order to be successful but has said the more participants the trial has, the more likely it will be the team will find answers.    Participants will receive one of four drugs currently on the market — including the anti-malaria drug touted by Donald Trump, known as hydroxychloroquine.   The other drugs being looked at as a treatment for COVID-19 include a combination of Lopinavir and Ritonavir (known by the brand name Kaletra), which is used to treat HIV; low-dose Dexamethasone,a steroid used to reduce inflammation; and azithromycin, a commonly used antibiotic.  Professor Horby said: It's been set up across the NHS in unprecedented speed. At the moment we're recruiting around 300 patients per day. Which is almost equivalent to a trial a day. So we're really breaking some records here to try and find a treatment as soon as we can.' Interest has been growing around the remdesivir drug however, after success stories across the globe. Dr Kathleen Mullane, who is overseeing a trial of the drug at the University of Chicago, told The Times: 'Most of our patients are severe and most of them are leaving at six days.'  During the University of Chicago study the patients were treated with daily infusions of remdesivir, an experimental drug first touted to treat Ebola which has been in the making for ten years.  Most of the patients have been discharged after their symptoms eased over a week, and only two patients have died. The manufacturer - pharmaceutical giant Gilead Sciences - saw its shares surge by 16 per cent in after hours trading on Thursday as American stock markets rallied overnight in response to the encouraging trial results. There are currently no approved treatments for COVID-19, the highly contagious respiratory illness caused by the novel coronavirus that has infected over two million people worldwide.  Hopes have been pinned on remdesivir, but experts have urged cautious optimism over early findings.  Remdesivir anti-viral trial reports 'rapid recoveries' for severe hospitalised coronavirus patients, with nearly all discharged within a week. Pictured: A vial of the investigational drug remdesivir is visually inspected at a Gilead manufacturing site in the United State The University of Chicago is one of 152 locations participating in Gilead's phase three clinical trial involving severe COVID-19 patients. Pictured, headquarters in Foster City, California  RELATED ARTICLES Previous 1 2 Next Remdesivir anti-viral trial reports 'rapid recoveries' for... There is 'no evidence' that people who have survived... Police officers pay tribute to 'much-loved' married... Share this article Share Professor Peter Horby, who is leading the UK's recovery trial of drugs at the University of Oxford, said remdesivir was not part of the country's tests Remdesivir is only an experimental drug, and was initially hoped to help fight Ebola. But it faltered in comparison to others drugs. It has been thrust into the limelight once more after the World Health Organization listed it as 'the most promising candidate' for a COVID-19 therapy in January.  The medicine has been shown to stop other similar coronaviruses, including MERS, in tests on animals.  And the first COVID-19 patient diagnosed in the US reportedly improved overnight after doctors gave the 35-year-old remdesivir as a last-ditch attempt to treat him.  Scientists say remdesivir - which is also being trialled in scores of British hospitals - could have a 'profound impact' on the global pandemic. The University of Chicago is one of 152 locations participating in Gilead's phase three clinical trial involving severe COVID-19 patients, with other locations in the UK. It's a 'single arm' study meaning it does not measure the drug against a matched group of patients treated with a placebo.  Remdesivir has been thrust into the limelight once more after the World Health Organization listed it as 'the most promising candidate' for a COVID-19 therapy in January. Pictured is a mock-up of a pill version, as it is currently only an experimental drug The antiviral medication led to 'rapid recoveries in fever and respiratory symptoms', with 'nearly all patients discharged in less than a week'. Picutred: An ampule of remdesivir during a news conference at the University Hospital Eppendorf in Hamburg, Germany, April 8 UChicago Medicine recruited 125 people with COVID-19 into Gilead's two Phase 3 clinical trials, according to medical news website STAT.  Of those people, 113 had severe disease. All the patients were been treated with daily infusions of remdesivir. WHAT IS REMDESIVIR?  Remdesivir was developed around 10 years ago with the intention of it destroying the Ebola virus. It was pushed aside, however, when other, better candidates emerged. It's made by California-based pharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences, the firm behind the life-changing HIV-preventing pill Truvada, or PrEP. Because it is only an experimental drug, it doesn't have a marketed name. Lab tests of remdesivir have shown promise against coronaviruses - but human trials are still in their early days. Doctors in the US have tried it on patients and it managed to speed up the recovery of the first person to be treated for the virus there. The a 35-year-old man in Washington state, close to Seattle – whose infection was announced on January 20 – recovered after being given the drug.   A Californian woman who doctors 'thought was going to pass away' also recovered in the US after being given the drug. Four American passengers on board the Diamond Princess cruise ship treated with the drug in Japan also recovered.   Officials in Liguria – a coastal region of Italy – also announced an infected man in his 70s had recovered and could go home after 12 days in hospital.  It is not prescribed on the NHS because it hasn't been approved. Hundreds of patients - including some in the UK - taking part in a European mega-trial will get chance to take the drug to prove if it can fight the coronavirus.  The drug is also being trialled on coronavirus patients in China and at the University of Nebraska. Scientists are full of hope because the drug is proven to be safe in humans. But its side effects are still not well understood.  Professor Devi Sridhar, chair of global public health at the University of Edinburgh, hailed remdesivir as 'one of the most promising antivirals' being investigated. While Dr Alfredo Garzino-Demo, of the University of Maryland School of Medicine, said evidence shows it has the ability to treat COVID-19 patients. The antiviral medication led to 'rapid recoveries in fever and respiratory symptoms', with 'nearly all patients discharged in less than a week'. Most of them have now been discharged, despite the large majority being severly sick to start with, and two patients died. The results were revealed by Kathleen Mullane, the infectious disease specialist overseeing the remdesivir studies for the hospital, in a video conference, of which STAT obtained a copy.  The 'anecdotal data ... looks promising on the surface and continues to support some potential for the drug to be active in certain COVID-19 patients,' RBC Capital Markets analyst Brian Abrahams said in a research note.  'Nonetheless, there are major limitations to contextualizing and interpreting this data.' Interest in Gilead's drug amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic has been high. The New England Journal of Medicine last week published an analysis showing that two-thirds of a small group of severely ill COVID-19 patients saw their condition improve after treatment with remdesivir. The paper's author called the findings 'hopeful,' but cautioned it is difficult to interpret the results since they do not include comparison to a control group. The patient numbers were small, the details being disclosed were limited, and the follow-up time was relatively short.  Gilead, in an emailed statement, said 'the totality of the data need to be analyzed in order to draw any conclusions from the trial'. UChicago Medicine, also in an email, said 'partial data from an ongoing clinical trial is by definition incomplete and should never be used to draw conclusions'. The university said information from an internal forum for research colleagues concerning work in progress was released without authorization. Gilead expects results from its Phase 3 study in patients with severe COVID-19 at the end of this month, and additional data from other studies to become available in May. The company's severe COVID-19 study includes 2,400 participants from 152 different clinical trial sites all over the world.  British patients will also be enrolled, with 15 NHS trusts in London, Liverpool, Sheffield, Glasgow and Plymouth signed up. Another Gilead trial of patients with moderate COVID-19 symptoms has 169 study locations.    It is the world's biggest trial of drugs to treat the coronavirus, which has killed more than 13,000 people in Britain and almost 150,000 globally. it will be run by Oxford University and includes four potential treatments, of which one is hydroxychloroquine REMDESIVIR PREVENTS CORONAVIRUS MERS IN MONKEYS  Remdesivir was recently shown to prevent disease and reduce the severity of symptoms in monkeys infected with MERS, an infection closely related to SARS-CoV-2.   The results, reported in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in February, raised hope that it could be effective against the new coronavirus virus. 'It wasn't successful in Ebola, but there is some indication that it might be successful in the coronaviruses,' Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute on Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), said in a recent interview. NIAID scientists tested remdesivir in monkeys 24 hours prior to infection with MERS and in other monkeys 12 hours after infection - the time frame in monkeys when the virus is most active.  They were compared with untreated monkeys in a control group. After six days, all of the untreated animals got sick. In the monkeys treated prior to infection, the drug appeared to prevent disease. Animals in this group showed no sign of infection, had significantly lower levels of virus in their lungs and no lung damage. Those treated after infection also fared better than the control group. They had less severe disease, their lungs had lower levels of virus and they had less severe lung damage, researchers found. Many drugs that succeed in monkeys fail in humans. Nevertheless, the researchers said their findings bolster hopes for the ongoing studies in China and for compassionate use of the drug in severely ill patients. Hilary Hutton-Squire, vice president and general manager at Gilead Sciences UK and Ireland, said Gilead started research into remdesivir more than a decade ago.  In animal tests, remdesivir has shown to be 'quite effective at preventing infection' and reducing severity of illness and damage to the lungs caused by COVID-19.  That's according to Dr Daniel Kuritzkes, chief of infectious diseases at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, where research on remdesivir is taking place. Dr Kuritzkes said: 'It interferes with the enzyme that reproduces the genetic material of the virus.' Previously researchers at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, showed in test tube and animal studies that the drug can inhibit the coronaviruses that cause SARS and MERS. And it's been granted a spot in the World Health Organization's large global trial, called SOLIDARITY, of four drugs.  The US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease in February began an 800-patient trial that randomly assigns patients to treatment with either remdesivir or a placebo. Those results are not expected until after Gilead's trial reads out.  Remdesivir has been provided to several hundred severely ill COVID-19 patients in the US, Europe and Japan under 'compassionate use' provisions.  For example, a young man in Snohomish county in Washington, the first COVID-19 patient in the US, was given remdesivir when his condition worsened. He improved the next day, according to a case report in The New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM). As of January 30, he had a mild cough.  But the 'compassionate use' program is reportedly being halted due to an unmanageable number of requests, it was revealed on March 22.  The Dow Jones was up 3.08 per cent as of 4am ET The Nasdaq was up 1.79 per cent as of 4.45am The S&P was up 2.50 per cent as of 4.45am President Donald Trump speaks about the coronavirus in the James Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House. Trump said the country was 'in the process of winning' the war against the coronavirus BRITISH PATIENTS TO GET REMDESIVIR British coronavirus patients are set to get the promising Ebola drug remdesivir as part of a trial amid the escalating crisis in the UK. Remdesivir has been fast-tracked into trials so doctors in hospitals across England and Scotland can administer it for critically ill COVID-19 patients. Manufactured by pharmaceutical giant Gilead, remdesivir was initially hoped to help fight. But it faltered in comparison to others drugs.  Gilead has initiated two phase 3 randomised studies to evaluate the safety and efficacy of remdesivir in patients with moderate to severe Covid-19. It will be administered via IV. The trial will involve thousands of people across 15 NHS trusts in London, Liverpool, Sheffield, Glasgow and Plymouth and more. Critically, a clinical trial of this size will highlight the true efficacy of remdesivir and any potential side effects. Shares of Gilead, which closed at $76.54 in regular trading, were up 16 per cent at $89.10 after hours. Blue-chip futures indexes saw big upward spikes following a flurry of positive signals, setting the stage for a decent day of trading yesterday. The Dow Jones was up 2.96 per cent, the S&P was up 2.76 per cent and Nasdaq was up 1.97 per cent as of 4.30am ET.  And Boeing, which floats shares on the Dow, helped drag up the index after it rose 8 per cent overnight after announcing intentions to resume airplane production at its Washington State plant. But the rises made by the airline were on half that of Gilead, which benefited from a media publications dispatch from the trial laboratory. FTSE 100 has also kicked in again, up 193 points, and the Europe-wide Stoxx 600 index gained 2.9 per cent. London's index of heavyweight shares was up 3.4 per cent at 5,822, just a dozen or so points below its high point of the day.   Investor confidence was also buoyed by Donald Trump unveiling the White House's guidance to state governors for easing restrictions and restarting the economy. At the daily evening press briefing, the President outlined his plan 'to preserve the health of our citizens we must also preserve the health and functioning of our economy'. Although conceding control of when the lockdown is lifted to individual state governors, he unveiled a three-phase guideline.   In phase one, schools and organized youth activities are to remain closed, but large venues, including sit-down dining, movie theaters, places of worship and sporting venues can reopen under social distancing protocols.  Businesses are also encouraged to allow workers to work from home where possible.  In phase two, telework is encouraged, but where workers return to the office, it's suggested common areas are closed.  In this phase, non-essential travel can also resume, bars can reopen and gyms will be allowed to operate. In phase three, schools and youth activities can reopen, visits to senior care facilities and hospitals can resume. Worksites can also resume unrestricted staffing of worksites.  REVEALED: THE RECOVERY TRIAL DRUGS IN THE UK Hydroxychloroquine  What are the brand versions of the drug? Plaquenil. What does it treat? Malaria, lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. It is a less powerful and, by some experts' accounts, less toxic, version of chloroquine phosphate. Hydroxychloroquine, sold under the brand name Plaquenil, may treat COVID-19 Who makes it and where has it already been tested? Drug giant Sanofi carried out a study on 24 patients, which the French government described as 'promising'.  French health officials are now planning on a larger trial of the drug, which is used on the NHS.  What have studies shown? Results from the French study showed three quarters of patients treated with the drug were cleared of the virus within six days. None of the placebo group were treated.  How does it work? It interferes with viral molecules replicating in red blood cells. Is it being tested in the UK? Hydroxychloroquine is one of the first drugs to be trialled in the Principle study. It involves high-risk patients in primary care, aged between 50 to 64, who have COVID-19 symptoms and a chronic health condition such as heart disease, asthma or cancer.  It is unclear how many patients are taking part, and the study will run until March next year. So it will be a while before results are clear. The study is being at the University of Oxford’s Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences. Hydroxychloroquine is also thought to be among 1,000 drugs being tested at Queens University Belfast.  What are its side effects?   Skin rashes, nausea, diarrhoea and headaches. What do the experts think? Chinese scientists investigating the other form of chloroquine penned a letter to a prestigious journal saying its 'less toxic' derivative may also help. In the comment to Cell Discovery – owned by publisher Nature, they said it shares similar chemical structures and mechanisms. The team of experts added: 'It is easy to conjure up the idea that hydroxychloroquine may be a potent candidate to treat infection by SARS-CoV-2.'  Lopinavir/ritonavir  What are the brand versions of the drug? Kaletra and Aluvia. What does it treat?  Lopinavir/ritonavir, marketed under the brand names Kaletra and Aluvia, is an anti-HIV medicine It is an anti-HIV medicine given to people living with the virus to prevent it developing into AIDS. HIV patients were prescribed either Kaltra or ritonavir alone around 1,400 times in 2018. Who makes it? Illinois-based manufacturer AbbVie donated free supplies of the drug to authorities in China, the US and Europe for tests. What have studies shown?  Chinese media reported that the drug was successfully used to cure patients with the coronavirus, but the reports have not been scientifically proven. A separate Chinese study published in the New England Journal of Medicine found that the lopinavir-ritonavir combination did not improve survival or speed recovery of COVID-19 patients. However, the authors noted they had enrolled a 'severely ill population' of patients. In a clinical trial submission, scientists in South Korea said lab studies have: 'In vitro [laboratory] studies revealed that lopinavir/ritonavir [has] antiviral activity against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).' How does it work?  It is a class of drug called a protease inhibitor, which essentially stick to an enzyme on a virus which is vital to the virus reproducing.  By doing this it blocks the process the virus would normally use to clone itself and spread the infection further. Is it being tested in the UK? It is not prescribed on the NHS for coronavirus because it hasn't been approved - but will be used in the Recovery trial, a massive study run by the University of Oxford for COVID-19 patients already in hospital. The trial started enrolling patients on March 23, with the aim of reaching COVID-19 patients in more than 150 UK hospitals within two weeks.   The drug is also being trialled on coronavirus patients in China and at the University of Nebraska. What are its side effects?  Known side effects include diarrhea, headaches, upset stomachs, drowsiness, dizziness, a bad taste in the mouth, and trouble sleeping. What do the experts think? The drugs have been described as 'promising' by experts. But there has been some hesitancy about the drug combination due to the NEJM study.  Dexamethasone is a steroid drug is used to treat allergies and asthma, as well as some types of cancer Dexamethasone What are the brand versions of the drug? Ozurdex and Baycadron.   What does it treat?  The steroid drug is used to treat allergies and asthma, as well as some types of cancer.  Who makes it? Baycadron is made by Wockhardt Usa, Llc, while Ozurdex is made by Allergan, the manufacturer of a commonly used textured breast implant. What have studies shown?  No studies have yet to prove dexamethasone can treat SARS-CoV-2 - but it has been tested on patients with MERS and SARS, two different coronaviruses.  One retrospective study of critically-ill patients with MERS found that almost half of the people that received steroids needed additional treatments such as assistance in breathing, drugs to increase blood pressure, and a form of dialysis.  Those given steroids were found to take longer to clear the virus from their bodies. Other studies found that the virus was still present in SARS patients who took the drugs up to three weeks after infection. How does it work?   Steroids are often used by doctors to reduce inflammation, which is present in the lungs of patients with the coronavirus.   However, steroids also impair the immune system's ability to fight viruses and other infections that often develop in patients with life-threatening illness. Is it being tested in the UK? Dexamethasone is one of the drugs being used in the RECOVERY trial launched by the University of Oxford. It will include patients at more than 130 NHS hospitals across the UK. What are its side effects?  The drug is known to cause an increase in appetite and heartburn, as well as muscle weakness and insomnia. What do the experts think? In a piece in prestigious medical journal The Lancet, three experts warned: 'No unique reason exists to expect that patients with 2019-nCoV infection will benefit from corticosteroids. 'And they might be more likely to be harmed with such treatment.  'We conclude that corticosteroid treatment should not be used for the treatment of 2019-nCoV-induced lung injury or shock outside of a clinical trial.' Azithromycin is an antibiotic which has shown signs of promise when used in conjunction with hydroxychloroquine Azithromycin  What are the brand versions of the drug?   Z-Pack and Zithromax What does it treat?  It's widely used to treat chest infections such as pneumonia, infections of the nose and throat such as sinus infection (sinusitis), skin infections, Lyme disease, and some sexually transmitted infections. Azithromycin is used in children, often to treat ear infections or chest infections. Who makes it?  Pfizer  What have studies shown?    Some clinicians have seen limited success in COVID-19 patients when adding it to chloroquine and/or hydroxycholoroquine. There is little concrete evidence for this however and it remains a controversial topic.   Last month, big pharma firm Pfizer announced positive data for the use of its azithromycin (Zithromax) drug as a coronavirus treatment.   Hydroxychloroquine was given to 20 COVID-19 patients, and six also received azithromycin. The rate of cure was highest in people who received hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, the study reported.  How does it work?  The drug itself is an antibiotic and therefore ineffective against viral infections.  However,  some experts think combining it with the old anti-malaria drugs can improve the prognosis for the sickest patients.  It is unknown how or if the drug itself can be effective against a virus directly.  Is it being tested in the UK?  Azithromycin is one of the four drugs featured in the University of Oxford's Recovery Trial. This programme currently ha more than 5,000 participants who are all coronavirus patients currently in British hospitals.   What are its side effects?  Common side effects include nausea, diarrhoea or vomiting, losing your appetite, headaches, dizziness or changes to taste.   More serious side effects which are far rarer include chest pains, yellowing skin/eye whites, tinnitus or vertigo.  What do the experts think?  Controversial scientists, such as French doctor Didier Raoult, claim the drug, iwhen used in partnership with hydroxychloroquine can help fight coronavirus.  However, experts are almost universally of the opinion that the antibiotic on its own will offer no protection from the viral infection.   Advertisement Read more: Gilead data suggests coronavirus patients are responding to treatment Coronavirus patients given US trial drug remdesivir ‘are off ventilators in a day’ | News | The Times Share or comment on this article: Breakthrough drug used to treat coronavirus is NOT part of Oxford University trial e-mail 10 shares Add comment Comments 15 Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rated Worst rated   View all The comments below have not been moderated.   View all The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. Add your comment Enter your comment Post comment to your Facebook Timeline What's This? By posting your comment you agree to our house rules. Submit Comment Clear Close Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline? Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.   No Yes Close Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline? Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook. You can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our Privacy Policy. More top stories Bing Site Web Enter search term: Search Advertisement Like DailyMail Follow DailyMail Follow @dailymail Follow DailyMail Follow MailOnline Follow Daily Mail     Femail Today Katie Holmes' daughter is 14! Katie Holmes gushes about her 'sweetheart' Suri Cruise in Instagram post: 'I am so blessed'   Ireland Baldwin strips down to a red bikini while painting the outside of her Los Angeles house  It seems Ireland Baldwin has taken on quite a big project Puppy love! Meghan and Harry walk Beagle Guy and Labrador Oz wearing bandanas and facemasks during lockdown in LA John Krasinski throws epic virtual prom with Billie Eilish, The Jonas Brothers and The Office alum Rainn Wilson It featured in his latest installment of Some Good News Reese Witherspoon reflects on her 'embarrassing and dumb' 2013 arrest for disorderly conduct ...but admits she is 'just a human being'   The Netflix of documentaries: This subscription has access to more than 2,000 series and features (and it's $29.99 right now)  Promoted Amy Schumer has 'lost all control' in quarantine as she shares hilarious video of son Gene screaming for food: 'Get out of here, Oliver Twist!'   Gwyneth Paltrow is auctioning off Oscars dress from 2000 ...which she previously labelled as being only 'okay' in blog about her biggest fashion failures Millie Bobby Brown, 16, is 'writing and recording new music' at her home studio after Stranger Things halted filming amid the coronavirus lockdown Millie appeared on The Tonight Show Christie Brinkley serves pioneer woman vibes in cute denim overalls as she tends to her garden during quarantine   Lady Gaga calls beau Michael Polansky the 'love of my life' and says the tech CEO is helping her develop a new mental health app called Braver   Advertisement Learn a new skill in lockdown: From coding and creative writing to DJ-ing and Photoshop, 10 super-affordable online courses Promoted Khloé Kardashian and ex Tristan Thompson are 'half joking, half serious' about having a second child together and is happy about how they're raising True   Ariana Grande gets to work recording a new song in lockdown with the help of her pet pig... after wowing fans in Disney Family Singalong The popstar, 26, got to work on Saturday Cindy Crawford's son Presley Gerber pushes tough guy image calling him and new girlfriend 'Bonnie & Clyde' after getting a GUN tattoo on his torso 'Best way to start the day': Cristiano Ronaldo shares adorable early morning selfie with partner Georgina Rodriguez and their kids from lockdown in Portugal   Victoria Beckham lets loose as she dances with joy and looks smitten with husband David in never-before-seen video of memories to mark her 46th birthday   Helena Bonham Carter, 53, and her boyfriend Rye Dag Holmboe, 32, step out for a stroll with their dog as they enjoy exercise amid UK lockdown   Hailey Bieber celebrates sister Alaia Baldwin's pregnancy news and gender reveal: 'I'm gonna be an Aunty'    For ALL the showbiz news on the internet, go to Newzit.com SPONSORED Meghan confided it felt good to 'be with people', as she and Harry delivered food with help from her mom and Marianne Williamson Advertisement YouTuber Jeffree Star is accused of flouting social distancing after he left his mansion to buy a car - then invited friends over to do a makeup challenge Heather Locklear is spotted scolding boyfriend Chris Heisser for forgetting to put on his mask on a trip to a bank in LA RHONY's Leah McSweeney lures Sonja Morgan and Tinsley Mortimer into SKINNY DIPPING after downing vodka at wild Hamptons house party Pregnant Sophie Turner hides her baby bump beneath a heavy jacket during walk with husband Joe Jonas They both wore face masks as they walked their pups Justin Theroux and his rescue dog Kuma don matching formal wear for another candlelight dinner The actor and rescue dog, donned matching formal wear Low-impact total body exercise that blasts calories: CITYROW founder reveals how to do a home rowing workout  Promoted Pink offers up a private aerial lesson for the All In Challenge... while Megan Thee Stallion puts a music video cameo up for grabs   Eva Longoria livens up home quarantine and bonds with young son Santiago by using him as a weight during workout in her backyard   Lili Reinhart's dog Milo is 'a little skittish' as he recovers from surgery after being attacked by another dog The Hustlers star posted a tearful video last week Brian Austin Green ditches wedding ring for grocery run in Malibu after sparking rumors of separation with Megan Fox   Advertisement Drake's Toosie Slide reaches three billion views and becomes TikTok's fastest rising music trend... beating Kylie Jenner's record   William and Kate reveal how they have been homeschooling their kids, admit fears for Charles, Philip and the Queen and how they stay in touch with family Ayda Field puts on a VERY leggy display in patterned hotpants and heels as she joins suited Robbie Williams for a 'formal Friday' at home amid coronavirus lockdown   Gabrielle Union and transgender stepdaughter Zaya beat the quarantine blues as they jump for joy in the sunshine   Brad Paisley and wife Kimberly are quarantine couple goals as he braves dying her roots while under lockdown: 'I'm scared'   Female-focused reboot of Michael Douglas' 1983 film The Star Chamber slated for production at Amazon Studios   Charlize Theron cuts a casual and comfy look while grabbing a food delivery during COVID-19 isolation She is isolating with her daughters in their Los Angeles home Ana de Armas transforms into a blonde bombshell as she shares behind the scenes photos from her new Netflix movie Sergio    Adriana Lima proves she is flawless with or without Instagram filters in new social media snapshots She has been majorly active on social media Kesha makes use of quarantine downtime and shares drum-heavy mini-song Home Alone on social media She dedicated the song to Macaulay Culkin OJ Simpson hits the bottle and goes golfing in his backyard for TikTok debut as he goes stir crazy at home during quarantine   Sofia Vergara sizzles in a leopard print dress and floral gown for new Dolce & Gabbana campaign after being named highest paid TV actress in 2019   Chrissy Teigen shares adorable snap of son Miles ...as she teases John Legend AGAIN over resemblance to Arthur   Mario Lopez gears up for Jiu Jitsu training...weeks after criticism for defying social-distancing to workout with Mark Wahlberg   Garcelle Beauvais matches face mask with retro chic leopard look as she has her car serviced in LA amid coronavirus pandemic   Advertisement Nina Dobrev looks sweet in a summer dress and wears her hair in braided pigtails while leaving her house during lockdown    Darren Criss jokes about Beyonce singing the song he wanted to perform during The Disney Family Singalong   Drew Carey admits he has forgiven ex-fiancee Amie Harwick's alleged murderer: 'You have to be able to forgive people like that'   Queen will be in lockdown at Windsor for her 94th birthday - the first time she's had to cancel since Hitler's birthday   Ricky Gervais 'boosts his company's' earnings by $2.5 MILLION after huge Netflix deal for his acclaimed series After Life'   Ellen DeGeneres is blasted by her TV crew for poor communication and severe pay cuts while she hosts show from home with non-union production staff  YouTube star Steve Cash who was the voice behind Talking Kitty Cat videos commits suicide aged 40  Self-inflicted gunshot wound  EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: Model Cara Delevingne thinks she can save the world with her as she gets set to launch a charity to 'influence opinion'   The Office actor Ranjit Chowdhry dies aged 64 after perforated ulcer ...while stuck in India unable to return to family in US amid COVID-19 lockdown   Victoria's Secret model Devon Windsor gives a tour of her splashy Miami mansion that includes a designer-filled closet, mega kitchen and lap pool   Advertisement Liam Payne apologises for his song Both Ways after he was accused of being 'biphobic' over his lyrics 'sharing that body'   Vannesa Bryant says her late daughter Gianna and her two teammates who died alongside her will be honorary picks at the WBNA draft  YNW Melly publicly asks Kanye West for help after his requested release from jail due to COVID-19 was denied   Tammy Hembrow flaunts her washboard abs and pert derrière in a crop top and tiny shorts... after revealing how fans can achieve a 'natural booty' like hers   Trading places! Jennifer Love Hewitt lists $4.1M Pacific Palisades pad after splurging on bigger $6M six-bedroom property in the same neighborhood   Shahs Of Sunset's Ali Ashouri files a restraining order against his costar Reza Farahan... after claiming Reza's husband sexually harassed him Hugh Jackman joins wife Deborra-Lee Furness to walk dogs during lockdown... after taking another fun jab at Ryan Reynolds    Kylie Jenner models a plunging leotard from SKIMS in flashback photos shared by sister Kim Kardashian The cosmetics mogul looked stunning Josh Brolin goes shirtless in a mask as he has a family day with his heavily covered-up mother-in-law Barbra Streisand and dad James Dylan Dreyer and her husband Brian open up about his 'really scary' battle with coronavirus, revealing fears that he could have infected their children Advertisement Colin Hanks skips his usual mask and gloves as he goes for a stroll with his daughter  He went without a mask or gloves after wearing them on past outings Laura Dern, 53, looks youthful in orange sunglasses as she chats on her phone before covering her mouth with a scarf during stroll   Serena Williams dresses up as Snow White and Anna from Frozen as she plays with daughter Olympia: 'Princess attire required'   Blac Chyna claims to have 'bombshell evidence' she never attacked ex Rob Kardashian as assault suit continues   Joaquin Phoenix almost played Batman in a 2000s-era Darren Aronofsky adaptation ... but the studio refused to cast the actor   Courtney Stodden displays her ample assets in floral bikini and wows in eye-popping Playboy bunny costume for sizzling social media snaps Vogue cover star Elsa Hosk and her boyfriend Tom Daly wear his-n-her masks to stock up on groceries in New York City   'Staying strong is the battle': Chris Cuomo's wife Cristina opens up for first time about not being able to see her children as she goes into isolation   Evanescence announce the title and artwork for their upcoming fifth studio album The Bitter Truth... as they reveal its first song arrive next week   Iranian 'Zombie Angelina Jolie' Instagram star is on a ventilator after contracting coronavirus while detained for her social media activities Advertisement Cartoon Prince George is hilariously catty as he addresses the masses in first look at HBO Max's The Prince Family Guy producer Gary Janetti's memes  Alyson Hannigan makes sure to protect herself with a face mask during walk with her daughter How I Met Your Mother star Will & Grace reveals the emotional first look at its ultimate series finale: 'It's harder to say goodbye this time' The show first aired way back in 1998 Tamra Judge 'felt a little left out' when RHOC started filming season 15 ... and reveals she hasn't totally ruled out returning to the show Style and grace! Dr. Deborah Birx's signature scarves provide fashion inspiration and spark their own INSTAGRAM account Robin Wright beams while riding bikes with husband Clement Giraudet and their dog during quarantine break in LA Kelly Ripa explains how she and husband of 24-years Mark Consuelos' sex life stays steamy: 'We learned each other well' Meghan Markle and Prince Harry are pictured for the first time in LA delivering food packages to a non-profit during lockdown Inside John Legend and Chrissy Teigen's new house: Couple buy $5.1m four-bedroom 'organic modern' LA mansion near to their current home Bruce Willis insider insists actor is isolating with ex Demi Moore because he got 'stuck' in COVID-19 hotspot... as wife Emma Heming remains in LA Advertisement Eva Amurri shares intimate photos from her home birth of third baby and reveals she invited her older children to watch Justin Bieber hints he may be recording a new album while in self-isolation with Hailey as he says his songs are 'sounding crazy good' Michelle Money's ex Ryan gives update about Brielle's 'miracle' recovery after revealing she's talking again following traumatic brain injury  Nikki and Brie Bella talk about being Hooters waitresses as they eat hot wings while pregnant: 'You had to squeeze your breasts together' Alessandra Ambrosio posts a pinup photo from the Maldives where she models a Yantra bikini that represents the 'cosmos' Hoda Kotb shares adorable video of three-year-old daughter Haley Joy singing Happy Birthday to her grandmother as they celebrate in quarantine  Whitney Port reveals she feels 'narcissistic' as she sheds tears over the pressure of raising a child and running a business under quarantine NASCAR's only black racing car driver Bubba Wallace says Kyle Larson deserves a second chance after being fired for using the N-word  Victoria Beckham celebrates her 46th birthday with husband David at their home... after DJ pal Fat Tony hosts a 'virtual party' on Instagram Live Transgender YouTuber NikkiTutorials hits out at Ellen DeGeneres AGAIN after 'cold' interview - detailing rude treatment by an 'angry, overworked intern'  Advertisement Seth Rogen tells Jimmy Kimmel he's been smoking 'truly ungodly' amounts of weed while quarantining: 'This has not been bad for me' 'I'm so sad: Taylor Swift announces she's been forced to cancel all her 2020 concerts amid coronavirus pandemic Inside Kendall Jenner's Hollywood Hills mansion: Star's four bedroom home boasts modern art, plush rooms and a HUGE pool area Star Wars series for Disney+ based on Rogue One adds actors Stellan Skarsgård and Kyle Soller to the cast that already includes Diego Luna Ireland Baldwin and boyfriend Corey Harper stock up on beer and hard seltzer after she shares alluring bikini shot Tamra Judge shows off the insane bathroom remodel from her Orange County mansion... complete with a double shower and walk-in closet 'My anxiety manifests as depression': Reese Witherspoon divulges details of postpartum mental health battles... and reveals she was 'heavily medicated'  Jessica Simpson looks gorgeous without a speck of makeup as she teaches her baby girl Birdie Mae how to pucker up for the camera Star Trek vet William Shatner, 89, still wears his wedding band despite divorcing his wife a month ago as he plays it safe with a mask in LA Baywatch vet Brooks Burns, 42, makes a rare sighting during a power walk in LA... after posting a flashback bikini photo during Hawaii trip Advertisement Ashlee Simpson and her husband Evan Ross dash out for take away amid lockdown  She waited safely behind in the car as he emerged with a mask and gloves  Millie Bobby Brown, 16, shows off her incredible new smile after having her teeth transformed by the dentist   Kaitlynn Carter sheds light on life after her whirlwind romance with Miley Cyrus: 'My mind is just swirling'  Instagram Live interview with Whitney Port  Bob Dylan, 78, releases new song I Contain Multitudes... three weeks after his 17-minute long Murder Most Foul single about John F Kennedy hit #1 Kelly Clarkson 'drinks a bit of wine' to get through tutoring her kids, cooking, cleaning and promoting her single while in a small Montana cabin Lily Allen teases a glimpse of her toned abs in a pink crop top and black gym leggings as she shares hilarious text exchange with Ikea amid self-isolation 'I think I'm pregnant and it's yours': Kelly Osbourne engages in VERY flirty exchange with Unorthodox star Amit Rahav  Outlander star Sam Heughan slams online bullies for '6 years of bullying, harassment and stalking' and reveals he's been the target of death threats   How Kate's hair looks good in  lockdown: Royal's locks are shiny after a rest from being styled for events and she had pre-isolation trim, stylist claims Dr Oz says he 'misspoke' after backlash over his remark that reopening schools 'may only cost us 2-3% in terms of total mortality' Advertisement Kim Kardashian puts her famous behind on display as she promotes her new SKIMS ribbed line while standing in the ocean Age-defying beauty runs in the family! Naomi Watts shares a stunning picture of her lookalike mother Miv #MeAt20: Celebrities share photos of themselves as part of a new social media challenge... but can you guess who they all are?  Joe Exotic's third husband Dillon Passage, 22, says it's 'disgusting' if the Tiger King star cheated on him in jail but says he will wait for him Three-times-married Halle Berry, 53, claims she 'loves being single and is considering giving up dating for good to spend more time with her children' Plain-speaking Princess Anne is the super trouper who could teach Prince Harry and Meghan Markle a thing or two 'I may have had a mustache!' Nicole Scherzinger pokes fun at herself as she shares amazing throwback to her First Holy Communion  Dame Judi Dench, 85, showcases her moves as she dances in TikTok video with grandson Sam Williams, 22... and fans are convinced he's Ed Sheeran Helena Christensen, 51, flaunts her enviable physique in a VERY racy swimsuit as she poses for sizzling shoot during coronavirus lockdown Armie Hammer's wife Elizabeth reveals they've been quarantined in Cayman Islands with their two kids for nearly a month: 'It wasn't planned' Advertisement Meghan backs project to help Londoners: Duchess praises 'moving' efforts to supply meals to those in need on video call with community kitchen Millie Bobby Brown shares a touching tribute to her late friend three years after her death following cancer battle Meghan and Harry planned to call their new foundation 'Archeway' before withdrawing trademark application in favor of 'Archewell' George Stephanopoulos' neighbor slams him for failing to properly social distance while his wife was sick with COVID-19 He was seen shopping  Sophie Wessex prepares care packages for staff at her local hospital after helping cook meals for frontline workers fighting the coronavirus pandemic  Nick Cordero's wife Amanda Kloots says he 'may never walk again' amid Broadway star's COVID-19 fight   Kylie Jenner promotes make-up kit in skimpy red bikini as she quarantines in momager Kris Jenner's $12m Palm Springs vacation home A nod to her new home! Meghan Markle donned $228 boyfriend shirt by LA-based brand and Stan Smith shoes to deliver food   'We started ribbing each other and it escalated': Hugh Jackman reveals feud with Ryan Reynolds started because of Scarlett Johansson Kelly Rowland, 39, parades her incredible figure in an array of tiny bikinis as she returns from music hiatus for sultry music video   Advertisement Sharon Stone reveals she wore her iconic T-shirt to the 1996 Oscars after she 'freaked out' when her two dresses were ruined ONE DAY before the awards show   Ex-boyfriend, 41, pleads not guilty to murdering Drew Carey's former-fiancee Amie Harwick who was 'thrown off a balcony to her death' 'Isolation and this is only week six!' Pierce Brosnan, 66, shares hilarious snap of his rugged gray beard and tangled long locks Trombonist who has played with Sting and Lenny Kravitz blasted  by his New York co-op for hosting 'drug-fueled parties' during coronavirus pandemic  Keeping Up With The Kardashians: Khloe Kardashian jokes with Tristan Thompson that she might want some of his sperm to have another baby   'Miss you': Pia Miller shares throwback photo of her Hollywood agent beau Patrick Whitesell in Paris - with the pair separated due to coronavirus Beyonce delivers dazzling surprise performance from home as she leads stars recreating iconic songs on Disney Family Singalong   Joe Giudice drops to the splits and does 50 press ups in quarantine as he tells fans to 'motivate' themselves Initially he was dismissive of lockdown Maria Shriver pairs blazer with skinny jeans for stroll around neighborhood with daughter Christina during coronavirus lockdown   Brian Dennehy warmly remembered by Sylvester Stallone as 'a brilliant performer' ... amid tributes following his death at age 81 at his home in Connecticut Advertisement Kate Middleton and Prince William are 'making sure they're visible' and 'sharing personal insights' to ensure the monarchy stays relevant   Trina McGee identifies Will Friedle as Boy Meets World castmate who hurled racial insult on-set The 50-year-old actress spilled the beans Princess Eugenie takes on 5K Run for Heroes challenge to raise funds for health workers after being nominated by pal Ellie Goulding Harry and Meghan  fans add British charity WellChild to #ArchieDay fundraiser to 'mark his birthplace' as they raise $25k ahead of his first birthday  Emilia Clarke goes low-key in a cozy padded jacket and stylish beanie as she takes pet dog Ted for a walk    Leona Lewis dazzles as she slips into a glitzy thigh slit gown to vacuum her house as she jokes her home has 'never been so clean'   Why has Gwyneth ditched her macrobiotic diet in lockdown? Paltrow takes delivery of HUGE frozen meat haul in quarantine   Victoria Beckham marks her 46th birthday with epic throwback snaps as she prepares to 'dance in spirit' with family at a virtual party amid lockdown   Leighton Meester responds to social media troll who called her 'fat' during Instagram Live... weeks after she appeared to show a pregnant bump Elizabeth Hurley's lookalike son Damian smoulders in a white open shirt as he poses in a field during coronavirus lockdown   Lily Allen and boyfriend David Harbour SING to one another after she burns his crumble in hilarious clip from lockdown   Prince William's fears for his father and grandparents: Duke reveals the family is doing 'all they can' to keep the Queen and Prince Philip safe   Victoria Beckham confirms the family are STILL in the Cotswolds during birthday bike ride... hours after video appeared to show the clan back in London    Julianne Hough emerges from quarantine with actor Ben Barnes in LA while husband Brooks Laich is in lockdown in IDAHO Cindy Crawford's son Presley Gerber shows off his new GUN tattoo as he shoots hoops shirtless In the video, the number '310' could also be seen  Directors Steven Spielberg and J.J. Abrams break COVID-19 quarantine for LA stroll with their wives   Jersey Shore: Jenni 'JWoww' Farley dumps Zack Carpinello after finally seeing Las Vegas video She dumped boyfriend and attacked castmate Sophie Wessex volunteers to help cook meals for NHS frontline workers fighting the coronavirus pandemic 'He's your twin!' Fans marvel at Louis Tomlinson's lookalike son Freddie, 4... and also spot the tot's temporary tattoo tribute to Harry Styles   'I love housework!' Victoria Beckham receives personalized dishwashing liquid from Harper on her 46th birthday in lockdown Lady Amelia Windsor's lockdown good life! 39th in line to the throne cooks on the Aga and strolls through blooming fields after leaving London   Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, 32, admits she would 'love' more kids with 'stubborn' Jason Statham, 52, and says she's PROUD son Jack, 2, has a British accent   Mark Wahlberg's wife Rhea Durham and ten-year-old daughter Grace jump on the Tiger King bandwagon to share hilarious parody 'It gives me a good feeling when it's all so challenging': Annie Lennox reveals she is recording a new body of work while in isolation   'I definitely had it': Sam Smith believes they contracted coronavirus... as star responds to criticism over THAT 'quarantine meltdown' post Rita Ora shares slew of sultry selfies in her bedroom... after 'leaving locals furious by spending lockdown in rented Cotswolds home'    Real Housewives Of New York: Sonja Morgan shocks wealthy guests as she drunkenly brags about 'amazing vagina' at Hamptons party 'It just felt nice to do something to thank the key workers': Fatboy Slim announces plans for a free concert following lockdown Joshua Jackson reveals his wife Jodie Turner-Smith was 'livid' at his character while watching Little Fires Everywhere   Jesse Williams and girlfriend Taylour Paige wear masks on a dog walk amid coronavirus pandemic   Kim Kardashian compliments 'beautiful' Beyonce on Disney Family Singalong... years after so-called feud   KISS legend Gene Simmons takes a break from home quarantine for a walk with wife Shannon Tweed and daughter Sophie in Beverly Hills   Demi Lovato engagement rumors are NOT true despite reports she 'may get a proposal soon' from Max Ehrich after dating one month   Teen Mom OG stars Catelynn Lowell and Tyler Baltierra owe 'over $800,000 in tax debt'... after Tyler boasted their daughters are 'set for life'  Emma Roberts makes face mask stylish on grocery run in white sweater, blue jeans and snakeskin slingbacks   Sarah Silverman performs her daily cheer for emergency personnel amid the coronavirus pandemic in NYC   Luke Evans' boyfriend Rafa Olarra helped him film remote Beauty and the Beast performance for Disney Family Singalong . High School Musical cast including Vanessa Hudgens and Ashley Tisdale reunite for Disney Family Singalong with Zac Efron Christine Baranski leads The Good Fight cast and crew in video conference and tells fans they will have a week off due to lockdown   Chrissy Teigen's four-year-old daughter Luna gives her a faux-bob: 'I have the best daughter in the world'   Scott Disick gushes over 'my loves' Penelope and Reign as they horse around by the pool during quarantine   The Green Hornet and Kato movie project in the works at Universal... nine years after Seth Rogen's big-screen adaptation   Jim Edmonds confirms he's dating 'threesome' partner Kortnie O'Connor as they workout in home he built with ex wife Meghan King Edmonds Prince William and Kate Middleton chair a virtual roundtable with mental health charity chiefs from their Norfolk home   Megan Thee Stallion flaunts body in crop top and boy shorts as dances while cooking in quarantine She lip synced to All the Things  Sam Smith enlists Demi Lovato for Olympics-themed music video I'm Ready... featuring high-heeled wrestlers and Rocky Horror divers   Disney releases a new trailer and poster for Artemis Fowl, which confirms the film will head straight to the Disney Plus streaming service on June 12    Hilary Duff donates Happy Little Camper diapers and baby wipes to help moms struggling during coronavirus pandemic   The Strokes lead singer Julian Casablancas, 41, dating band's roadie half his age following divorce from wife after 15 years of marriage Amber Rose takes a walk in bath robe and fluffy slippers as coronavirus lockdown continues in LA She's still sporting a dyed green buzz cut RHOBH star Dorit Kemsley shows off her new luxurious $6.5M home in Encino... after moving out of her Beverly Hills mansion Josh Brolin, 52, cradles daughter Westlyn, one, as he and third wife Kathryn, 32, take a stroll during the coronavirus lockdown in Los Angeles Ashley Graham breastfeeds baby Isaac as she hunkers down with family in her Nebraska home town amid coronavirus lockdown Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Dorit Kemsley brands rumors of problems in marriage to PK 'far-fetched' and 'ridiculous' 'Oh the 80's!' Real Housewives of Orange County alum Heather Dubrow posts throwback pictures from her days as Miss Syracuse 'Unimpress your friends!' Ryan Reynolds enlists wife Blake Lively as he promotes 'obscenely boring' shirt for healthcare charity Conquer COVID-19 Demi Lovato reveals she was rejected from exclusive dating app Raya... as new boyfriend Max Ehrich 'plans to propose' after COVID-19 crisis ends Isla Fisher puts pedal to the metal as she enjoys cruise on her bike as she takes a break outside during the COVID-19 lockdown in Los Angeles It's off! Princess Beatrice's May 29 wedding to Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi 'is CANCELLED' due to coronavirus crisis  Hugh Jackman looks downcast as he wears a face mask during another stroll with his daughter Ava amid the terrifying coronavirus crisis in New York City  Laura Dern wears latex gloves and Gucci shoes to pick up food in Brentwood amid coronavirus - but skips  the CDC-recommended face mask Claire Holt squeals with delight as balloon pops to reveal pregnant actress is having a girl... two years after she suffered devastating miscarriage Tommy Boy and Cocoon character actor Brian Dennehy, who also starred on TV's Dynasty, dies at age 81 at his home in Connecticut Lucy Hale goes springtime casual in sleeveless top as she makes a grocery run in Los Angeles during break from COVID-19 quarantine Millie Bobby Brown complains 'This is dumb' as she struggles through Jimmy Fallon's Whisper Challenge on Zoom Quibi show Murder House Flip features home where Jaws child star Judith Barsi was killed by her father in 1988 Steven Spielberg pays tribute to E.T. cinematographer and 'singular talent' Allen Daviau following his death at 77 from COVID-19 Sharon Stone, 62, announces she has written a tell-all book called The Beauty Of Living Twice that will cover her near-death experience in 2001 Ben Affleck gives girlfriend Ana de Armas a kiss while they both wear face masks... before he wraps his arms around her during their walk in LA Jonah Hill shows off trim figure in clinging wetsuit as he emerges from coronavirus lockdown to enjoy a surfing outing in Santa Barbara Disney Plus edits out Toy Story 2 casting couch joke after #MeToo movement revealed dozens of Hollywood predators including Harvey Weinstein Rihanna fans crucify RHOBH's Sutton Stracke for throwing shade at the star's fashion label Fenty: 'You look like a wet cocktail napkin' CBS announces three-hour season finale of Survivor with a virtual reunion special plus two-hour season premiere of The Amazing Race in May Jeannie Mai describes Jeezy's fireside proposal in quarantine after romantic Vietnamese-themed festivities Selena Gomez plays with her luscious locks in behind-the-scenes snap from new Boyfriend music video Song was released last week Kelly Bensimon, 51, of RHONY fame flashes her toned tummy and muscular arms in a bra top as she takes her dog for a stroll in Florida 'I never had any intention of harming Carole Baskin': Tiger King 'hitman' tells how he played along with Joe Exotic's murder scheme Bella Thorne pays tribute to her dad Delancey 13 years on from his death with throwback photos: 'I still feel very broken without you' J.J. Abrams sets up Justice League Dark and The Shining spin-off Overlook at HBO Max streaming service Studio handed out straight-to-series orders f Former Disney star and The Voice contestant Jordan Pruitt announces she is pregnant with her first child: 'A light in all the darkness' Reese Witherspoon donates to teachers at home during coronavirus... after failing to deliver on promise to send educators dresses  R. Kelly again asks judge to release him from jail where six inmates and seven staffers tested positive for COVID-19  Chris Pine shows off his toned arms as the Hollywood hunk goes for a bike ride around Los Angeles with his girlfriend Annabelle Wallis Carrie Underwood shows off husband Mike Fisher's strength as he bench presses their sons as the family stays at home during COVID-19 quarantine January Jones takes up tap dancing in quarantine after watching Annie and proclaims 'I'm a natural!' She's been keeping herself occupied 'Morning bottle': Kaia Gerber is seen feeding the cute puppy she is fostering at her Malibu home during the coronavirus pandemic lockdown Perry Mason trailer features first footage of Matthew Rhys as the rebooted detective for HBO The iconic character gets a new look Kenya Moore is ready to 'drop these receipts' at RHOA reunion and prove who 'real villain is' amid dramas with Nene Leakes Chadwick Boseman fans begin to worry after seeing the Black Panther star's DRAMATIC weight loss He shared video Johnny Depp joins Instagram and hints at Amber Heard conflict in first video as he thanks fans for their 'unwavering support over these years' Barbra Streisand shares a sweet picture of stepson Josh Brolin's wife Kathryn holding a 'we love you' sign during visit from grandchild Westlyn 'No slight is too small for him.' How Kevin Durant's insecurities and frequent tantrums helped to break up the Golden State Warriors' dynasty, book claims Sofia Vergara throws it back to the 80s as she shares swimsuit picture from her teens in Colombia She was discovered on the beach  Elsa Hosk bundles up in cozy boyfriend jacket as she and beau Tom Daly step out for a stroll in New York City amid the coronavirus lockdown Erika Jayne is a fresh-faced 18-year-old as she poses in front of the strip club she used to work at in vintage photo She took a walk down memory lane Ellen DeGeneres' wife Portia de Rossi wears a black mask as she walks her dog in Southern California ... then takes it off while on her cell phone Bindi Irwin releases never before seen video of her stunning nuptials with Chandler Powell ahead of upcoming TV wedding special Chrissy Teigen and John Legend emerge from their Malibu home amid lockdown... after model details dream about pair having 'sex in my closet' Brandi Glanville tweets that Denise Richards was a 'b*tch' on RHOBH premiere then adds she can't talk 'affair' as she tweets during show Puppy love! Leo DiCaprio, 45, and girlfriend Camila Morrone, 22, take newly fostered Siberian Husky for a walk in LA Khloe Kardashian gets territorial with Tristan Thompson over co-parenting True in new KUWTK: 'This is my baby' Kylie Jenner exposes her roots after weeks in isolation but her makeup is PERFECT as she shares comforting message: 'Sending out my love and prayers' Emily Ratajkowski wears just a hat and bikini bottoms as she poses topless in her Inamorata brand... after posting another racy snap  Kelly Clarkson drops new inspirational track I Dare You as she releases the song in SIX languages: 'It's my favorite thing I've ever done' Kim Kardashian flashes chiseled midriff in sizzling seaside photos as she plugs new SKIMS stretch ribbed line that 'molds to your curves' Harry's 'family time' in  lockdown: Prince tells of 'rolling around in hysterics' with Archie in first glimpse of new life in LA with Meghan  Arnold Schwarzenegger's lookalike son Joseph Baena, 22, tries and fails to crack an egg with his bicep  Mercedes 'MJ' Javid tries to make peace with Destiney Rose in latest sneak peek for Shahs of Sunset: 'I'm here to apologize and I'm here to be 100% transparent' Anna Kendrick makes friends with a sassy feminist sex doll in trailer for new Quibi series Dummy Lake Bell reveals her five-year-old daughter Nova has been diagnosed with epilepsy in emotional Instagram The Bless This Mess actress, 41, opened up  Angels star Mike Trout calls proposal to begin season quarantining players in Arizona 'pretty crazy' because he could miss the birth of his first child Megan Fox steps out solo hours after exchanging kids with Brian Austin Green... as they appear to be staying in separate homes amid quarantine Desperate Housewives star Felicity Huffman plays an alcoholic mother with terminal cancer in the dark comedy Tammy's Always Dying An English royal rose! Princess Eugenie shows off artistic talents as she shares stunning flower painting on Instagram   Punky Brewster reboot! Soleil Moon Frye rediscovers her 'Punky power' in quirky update of iconic series over 30 years after original aired Revenge star Madeleine Stowe, 61, and husband Brian Benben get some fresh air during coronavirus lockdown in LA Demi Lovato 'may get a proposal soon' from American Princess actor Max Ehrich... after dating for only ONE month Legendary WWE ring announcer Howard Finkel dies at age 69  No cause of death revealed as tributes pour in for beloved star Kelly Brook shows her appreciation for health workers as she takes part in the Clap For Carers national applause in the UK with boyfriend Jeremy Parisi Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills: Denise Richards dramatically ends filming as affair with Brandi Glanville surfaces   Diane Kruger wears her protective gear for ice cream date with boyfriend Norman Reedus as she holds onto her cone wearing latex gloves RFK's widow Ethel Kennedy, 92, 'has been a fan of Che Guevara for years thanks to her "subversive streak" and met Fidel Castro several times' Advertisement     DON'T MISS Pregnant Iskra Lawrence shows off her bump in plunging striped bikini as she reveals she's now THREE days overdue   Suzanne Somers, 73, shares sex tips for couples in isolation - as she reveals how she and her husband Alan, 83, ensure they are always in the mood Malin Akerman goes bra-less while walking her dog in Los Angeles' Griffith Park... which is closed due to the coronavirus outbreak   Nikki Glaser cries after blurting out wrong 'final answer' on Who Wants To Be A Millionaire on ABC   Megan Fox and Brian Austin Green exchange the kids as they appear to be staying in separate homes during the coronavirus quarantine Kevin Hart's wife Eniko wears a bikini while showing off baby bump as she gives fans a look at impressive backyard of mansion 'We are incredibly grateful': Robbie Williams and Ayda Field are joined by Rod Stewart and Penny Lancaster as they thank health workers LeAnn Rimes reveals 'public shaming' following her affair with now-husband Eddie Cibrian back in 2009 gave her panic attacks She's now found peace  David Beckham leads celebrity tributes to 'truly inspiring' WWII hero Captain Tom Moore, 99, as veteran raises $15million for hospitals Chris Hemsworth flaunts his muscular physique in a tight T-shirt after making THAT comment about brother Liam's ex-wife Miley  'What an adventure that was!': Emma Watson shares adorable childhood photo of herself as she rings in her 30th birthday   Would YOU wear this to play tennis? Tammy Hembrow flaunts her tiny waist in a flirty mini-skirt and crop top from her activewear range  Millie Bobby Brown shows off her new poodle puppy Winnie who she has bought as a travel companion while on the Jimmy Fallon show   Rosario Dawson is taking care of her parents in LA rather than quarantining with 'love' Cory Booker in New Jersey   Jennifer Garner dons a face mask while zooming through her Santa Monica neighborhood atop a white beach cruiser    'They won't resuscitate her if things go wrong': Boy George urges fans to pray for his 'beautiful mom' hospitalized due to 'a problem with her heart or lung' Botched star Dr. Paul Nassif, 57, announces his wife Brittany, 29, is pregnant with their first child together just six months after lavish wedding  'It just made me feel good': Hoda Kotb reveals she ate fried chicken on her kitchen FLOOR and watched Friends after filming a live coronavirus special Prince William praises the 'selfless commitment' of health workers as he opens Nightingale hospital in UK via video link 'We had one of the biggest break-ups 20 years ago': Britney Spears dances to 'genius' ex Justin Timberlake's song Filthy... and he loves it Michael Bublé rep says controversy over singer's exchange with wife Luisana Lopilato is 'a failed effort of cyber bullying'   Paul McCartney reveals it 'hurt too much' to keep The Beatles going due to his 'emotional pain' after John Lennon left group   'She got me!': Rebel Wilson sparks speculation she's set to appear in Killing Eve as she poses with Jodie Comer   Nicole Scherzinger showcases her impressive flexibility as she does a headstand split while giving fans a glimpse inside her lockdown routine   Hilarie Burton jokes she's 'aged 300 years' and gone gray in quarantine... as she celebrates her One Tree Hill co-star Antwon Tanner's birthday   Serena Williams cooks in Snow White costume as she cheekily reveals it doesn't fit in fun TikTok video She made her debut on the app  last month Grey's Anatomy showrunner says she didn't want Alex's departure make Jo go through more 'dark storytelling'   Crushed Meghan and Harry are forced to scrap plans for a celebrity-filled bash to celebrate Archie's first birthday amid lockdown Ellen Pompeo addresses the possibility of a coronavirus episode of Grey's Anatomy: 'I thought about it'   Sarah Silverman continues daily cheer for essential workers on her New York City balcony amid coronavirus pandemic   'I'm reporting you to the police!': Gordon Ramsay is criticized by angry neighbors for 'bringing the virus to Cornwall'   Kourtney Kardashian scoffs at the suggestion she's pregnant after fans comment on sexy underwear selfie: 'I did take it offensively' Bindi Irwin reveals the heartwarming reason she and husband Chandler Powell chose a tree-themed wedding cake for their nuptials   Jenna Dewan soaks up the sun in thigh-skimming dress as she snuggles up to to her newborn baby boy Callum   'She has no idea we are the same person!' The Rock's daughter Jasmine, 4, insists that he sing along with his own Moana character Maui  'I hope I don't forget this feeling of gratitude': James Corden reveals the life lessons he has learnt during the COVID-19 pandemic They haven't aged a day! Nicole Kidman shares a rare flashback photo of herself and longtime best friend Naomi Watts in their early twenties 'We got him out of Malibu': Protective Chris Hemsworth takes a dig at Miley Cyrus after her acrimonious split from his brother Liam Elisabetta Canalis wears high tech rebound shoes as she gets in some exercise for the day George Clooney's ex Vanderpump Rules' Katie Maloney flashes $35k 'SECOND wedding' ring from Tom Schwartz They tied the knot in Las Vegas last July, after first marrying back in 2016 Saved By the Bell reboot trailer brings a new class to Bayside High along with Mario Lopez and Elizabeth Berkley   Ricky Martin shows off his landscaping skills with shirtless picture of himself holding a lawnmower in his backyard amid the coronavirus pandemic Kristin Chenoweth channels Tiger King's Carole Baskin in music video for parody song Little Pieces She filmed the music video on her iPhone Cardi B tells Bernie Sanders she doesn't 'feel like it's safe to go outside' amid COVID-19 in streaming chat with senator she's long supported   Ben Affleck's girlfriend Ana de Armas is bruised and dusty in on-set snap of herself as a blonde in Netflix's biographical drama Sergio    Kim Kardashian reveals her six-year-old daughter North West has been 'running the house' during self-isolation: 'I can't get away from her' Ugly Betty actress Becki Newton welcomes third child with husband Chris Diamantopoulos Becki, 41, revealed she's given birth to a baby girl. Inside Bindi Irwin and Chandler Powell's wedding album: Never-before-seen photos reveal couple's tribute to late Crocodile Hunter Steve Irwin Robin Wright, 54, shows off her toned legs in a pair of cut-off denim shorts while enjoying a day out in Los Angeles amid COVID-19 pandemic Cassie stays careful in mask and gloves as she emerges from self-isolation in Los Angeles to stock up on some essential groceries for her family Blac Chyna refuses to go without her glam squad during lockdown, as she's seen arguing and crying on the phone after leaving a bank Reese Witherspoon's Draper James is slammed after a MILLION teachers apply for free dresses... but only 250 get one I James Corden and his wife Julia Carey wear masks while picking up food amid California's COVID-19 lockdown State has ordered face coverings in public Jack Osbourne and girlfriend Aree Gearhart don protective masks as they step out for a walk together on a quarantine break in Los Angeles A swipe at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle? Princess Anne accuses younger royals of trying to 'reinvent the wheel'  Selma Blair gushes 'I wish we were in quarantine together' as she shares throwback with Kris Jenner  - while Kardashian momager replies: 'I love love you! Danny Trejo donates hundreds of free meals from his Trejo's Tacos restaurant to USC Verdugo Hills Hospital Actor and Los Angeles native is doing his part Pregnancy cravings? Sam Worthington's wife Lara Bingle treats herself to a coconut flavored bundt cake while in self-isolation Ben Affleck and Matt Damon's online celebrity poker tournament raised $1.75m for food banks Entrants included Tom Brady and Adam Sandler La La Anthony claims it is 'smooth sailing' quarantining with estranged husband Carmelo Anthony... and says son, 13, is 'so happy' Ashley Roberts wears oversized pinstripe suit and trainers as she leaves the Heart FM studios amid the coronavirus pandemic John Krasinski has reportedly met with Marvel Studios for an unspecified project Studio has been holding 'virtual meetings' with stars to discuss new films Flip Or Flop star Christina Anstead poses in hot pink bikini as she has a pool day during self-isolation: 'Spring breaking at home' Mark Ruffalo reveals he lost role to star opposite Michelle Williams in Blue Valentine to Ryan Gosling   Dylan Dreyer's husband Brian reveals he had coronavirus as he details 'diabolical' symptoms that left him in TEARS while he quarantined  Capone trailer features Tom Hardy portraying the notorious gangster in the last year of his life Director Josh Trank. released new preview Lily Collins has her arms full of toilet paper as she heads home from visiting relatives in Los Angeles Actress wore a blue denim shirt Ellen DeGeneres joins Leonardo DiCaprio's All In challenge with a $1million donation and the chance for a fan to join her as guest co-host Naomi Watts and ex Liev Schreiber go on a grocery run together while quarantining with their sons in The Hamptons Kanye West reveals death of 'one of my best friends' Kobe Bryant was 'a game changer' for him: 'He was the basketball version of me' Brooklyn Beckham gushes over girlfriend Nicola Peltz's 'amazing heart' while warning followers about the risk of radiation from mobile phones  Rod Stewart, 75, takes advantage of sweltering temperatures as he hits the beach in a vibrant shirt and shorts combo during Los Angeles lockdown Rihanna, Jay-Z and Jack Dorsey donate $6.2MILLION to COVID-19 relief efforts ...after she and Twitter CEO give $4.2m to domestic violence victims Goldie Hawn wears a face mask as she enjoys peaceful stroll through the neighborhood during her routine isolation break  Halle Berry belts a pillow to her bare body as she hops on board the latest social media challenge during self-isolation Stripped off her clothes Joe Exotic isn't the only cast member of the Netflix hit to see the inside of a jail cell: Mugshot gallery of Tiger King's stars Bachelor contestant Victoria Fuller and the series' former star Chris Soules are 'currently together in Iowa'... three years after his crash that killed a 66-year man Jeffrey Tambor speaks out on his departure from Transparent over sexual misconduct claims... as actor apologizes to anyone he 'made feel vulnerable'   Dog the Bounty Hunter in new romance 10 months after wife Beth Chapman's death... as his daughters defend the relationship Will Forte is engaged to girlfriend Olivia Modling after proposing over the holidays (and his father nonchalantly shared the news to Jimmy Kimmel)  Harry Connick Jr.'s model wife Jill Goodacre pays tribute to her sculptor mom Glenna who has died at age 80  Armie Hammer shears off his hair at home to create a mohawk and handlebar mustache Call Me by Your Name co-star Timothee Chalamet gave his two cents 90 Day Fiance lovers Loren and Alexei Brovarnik welcome a baby boy: 'And then there were three!' Arnold Schwarzenegger, 72, models a Sheriff cap during bike ride with his lady love Heather Milligan, 45, who opts for a low-cut dress OITNB star Dascha Polanco partners with NYC's Lemonade Stand to help local businesses struggling to stay afloat during coronavirus Pretty Little Liars alum Lucy Hale follows mandatory mask regulations while at the gas station with her dog in Los Angeles WWE cuts Kurt Angle and nine other wrestlers 'due to COVID-19' after Florida Governor Ron DeSantis let the circuit host live shows in his state Game of Moans: Pregnant Sophie Turner admits being 'annoying' and 'grumpy' with Joe Jonas in Tik Tok's 'Couples Challenge' Jamie Gray Hyder  promises the season 21 finale of Law & Order: SVU will 'tie up loose ends' ... after show suspended filming due to COVID-19 Kanye West discusses his battle with 'alcoholism' and reveals he would drink vodka and orange juice at breakfast  Princess Diana felt like a 'lamb to the slaughter' on wedding day after discovering Charles had bought an engraved bracelet for Camilla Parker-Bowles  Ciara's husband Russell Wilson is forced to watch her ultrasound via FACETIME after not being allowed in the room amid COVID-19 concerns  RHOC star Kara Keough's brother shares heartbreaking photo of nephew's empty crib after baby dies during childbirth: 'May angels lead him in' Sharon Stone, 62, shares 'when I was younger, everybody was telling me what was wrong with my body' but now she accepts her figure Kim Kardashian shows off her Tiger King themed questions as she continues her law studies amid COVID-19 quarantine Olivia Wilde protects herself from COVID-19 with a N99 mask during a quarantine break The 36-year-old was spotted on a casual stroll around Santa Monica Jussie Smollett and his 'attacker' 'had a sexual relationship and visited a Chicago bathhouse together on multiple occasions' says source 'It's taking us out': Oprah Winfrey warns coronavirus is 'ravaging' the black community and reveals concern for her own health   Meghan Markle's high school sweetheart Luis Segura is spotted in LA amid claims she's been looking for a home on real estate agent's turf Jennifer Lopez tries to cheer up her followers by sharing three very glam flashback photos where she models hot pink: 'Sending you all love' Harry and Meghan  are 'delighted' as BBC pledges more than $100k generated from their wedding broadcast to help a hunger charity  Dua Lipa poses NAKED with a colorful guitar protecting her modesty... as star says she's 'making the most' of extra time with Anwar Hadid in lockdown Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro offer fans who donate to coronavirus relief effort a chance to appear in their next film Rita Ora 'leaves locals furious as she spends COVID-19 lockdown at a rented farmhouse 150 miles from her London home'   'I'm so happy, it's the best part of my life': Cameron Diaz, 47, breaks her silence on new parenthood and praises 'amazing father' Benji Madden    LA graffiti artist welcomes Prince Harry to the city with a portrait after being upset by Trump's comments about funding the royal's security bill Queer Eye star Antoni Porowski's sexually 'fluid' dating life has inspired new Netflix rom-com Girls And Boys Sofia Vergara shares throwback video of herself in yellow bikini as she reminisces on her hit '90s Spanish travel show Elizabeth McGovern claims she taught Brad Pitt how to KISS in their 1994 flick The Favor and jokes that she 'made him the man that he is' Joaquin Phoenix urges New York gov. Andrew Cuomo to release elderly prisoners amid fears over the spread of coronavirus among inmates Baby Yoda behind the scenes! The Mandalorian gets an eight-part documentary for Disney+ that will share some of the show's secrets Tobey Maguire steps out in face mask to pick up take-out food from vegan restaurant in LA He's set to face off against Ben Affleck Disney star Dove Cameron shares that she suffered from depression 'long before' she found fame on Descendants: 'I'm so fragile' 90 Day Fiance's Big Ed is unrecognizable with muscled chest in viral throwback He looked VERY different back in the day Matt Damon delights locals as he self-isolates in a small Irish town after being caught in lockdown while filming The Last Duel   Twitter goes wild for Unorthodox star Amit Rahav, 24, after shooting to fame as Esty's troubled husband Yanky Shapiro in Netflix series Dune photos give fans their first look at Jason Momoa and Zendaya on set of the Timothée Chalamet-starring sci-fi epic Glow actress Alison Brie reveals her battle with depression which runs in her family: 'I'll drag myself to a yoga class tears streaming down my face' William and Kate's Royal Foundation site reveals plan to provide 'practical support' and help frontline workers with 'mental health needs'  Advertisement From the Makers of Candy Crush Farm Heroes Saga, the #4 Game on iTunes. Play it now! more NEW ARTICLESHomeTop Share Back to top Home U.K. News Sports U.S. Showbiz Australia Femail Health Science Money Video Travel Columnists DailyMailTV Sitemap Archive Video Archive Topics Index Mobile Apps Screensaver RSS Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This is Money Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group dmg media Contact us How to complain Leadership Team Advertise with us Contributors Work with Us Terms Do not sell my info CA Privacy Notice Privacy policy & cookies Advertisement Advertisement      