Coronavirus outbreak: COVID-19 cases in India rises to 873, says Union Health Ministry - Oneindia News বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు English News India International Sports Business Features Videos Motivational Stories Videos City Bengaluru New Delhi Mumbai Chennai Kolkata Pune Salem Belgaum Ahmedabad Hyderabad Mangalore Sports PRO KABADDI LEAGUE Cricket Football Photos Videos Movies Bollywood Hollywood Tamil Telugu Malayalam Kannada Television Photo Gallery Lifestyle Beauty Cookery Insync Health Home n Garden Pregnancy n Parenting Relationship Auto Car News Bike News Reviews How-To Photos EMI Calculator Offbeat Latest New Cars Gadgets Mobile Tablet Reviews Gadgets Coupons Tata Cliq Amazon MMT Nykaa Jabong Flipkart Swiggy C'trip Bookmyshow Goibibo GoDaddy Bigbasket Money Education Travel Get Oneindia extension extension search notifications notifications_off You can manage your notification subscription by clicking on the icon. To start receiving timely alerts, as shown below click on the Green “lock” icon next to the address bar Click it and Unblock the Notifications Close X Close X To Start receiving timely alerts please follow the below steps: Click on the Menu icon of the browser, it opens up a list of options. Click on the “Options ”, it opens up the settings page, Here click on the “Privacy & Security” options listed on the left hand side of the page. Scroll down the page to the “Permission” section . Here click on the “Settings” tab of the Notification option. A pop up will open with all listed sites, select the option “ALLOW“, for the respective site under the status head to allow the notification. Once the changes is done, click on the “Save Changes” option to save the changes. Notifications Clear All No Notifications Trending Coronavirus For Quick Alerts Subscribe Now   Why India may be in the third stage of the coronavirus pandemic View Sample For Quick Alerts ALLOW NOTIFICATIONS   For Daily Alerts Just In 7 min ago Coronavirus lockdown: Delhi govt distributes ration for next month; Liquor shop shut in MP 39 min ago UP government arranges buses to ferry migrant labour 46 min ago Why India may be in the third stage of the coronavirus pandemic Must Watch Don't Miss Automobiles New ECE Helmet Safety Standards Make Motorcycle Riding Safer Lifestyle Krystle D’Souza Makes Fashion Statement In Gorgeous Dramatic Gown And It’s A Treat To Our Eyes Movies Kamal Haasan Rubbishes Reports Of Being Home Quarantine For Coronavirus Finance Banks Open Emergency COVID-19 Credit Lines To Businesses, Individuals Sports Rumour Has It: Pogba to Juventus, Dybala or Pjanic to Man Utd Technology Redmi K30 Pro Refresh Rate Can Be Tweaked To 80Hz But At Your Own Risk Travel 10 Best Family Friendly Destinations To Visit In April In India Education Coronavirus Outbreak: NTA Helpline Numbers Released For JEE Main & NEET Aspirants News India Coronavirus outbreak: COVID-19 cases in India rises to 873, says Union Health Ministry India oi-Ajay Joseph Raj P By Alphonse Joseph | Published: Saturday, March 28, 2020, 10:33 [IST] New Delhi, Mar 28: The Union Health Ministry on Saturday said that the total number of COVID-19 cases has increased to 873 in India with the death toll rising to 19. In its updated figures at 9:30 am, the ministry mentioned two fresh deaths -- one each in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Thus, deaths due to COVID-19 have so far been reported from Maharashtra (5), Gujarat (3), Karnataka (2), Madhya Pradesh (2) and one each from Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Punjab, Delhi, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. According to reorts, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the country stood at 775, while 78 people were either cured or discharged and one had migrated. #Stayathome and send us your selfie Also, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter and appealed Congress leaders, workers and all citizens to help migrants and poor people facing difficulties during the 21-day nationwide lockdown. आज हमारे सैकड़ों भाई-बहनों को भूखे-प्यासे परिवार सहित अपने गाँवों की ओर पैदल जाना पड़ रहा है।इस कठिन रास्ते पर आप में से जो भी उन्हें खाना-पानी-आसरा-सहारा दे सके,कृपा करके दे! कॉंग्रेस कार्यकर्ताओं-नेताओं से मदद की ख़ास अपील करता हूँ। जय हिंद! pic.twitter.com/ni7vkhRQAZ — Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) March 28, 2020 Meanwhile, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman held discussions with various chambers regarding industry's inputs and impacts on the Indian economy during the 21-day coronavirus lockdown. More CORONAVIRUS News Coronavirus lockdown: Delhi govt distributes ration for next month; Liquor shop shut in MP UP government arranges buses to ferry migrant labour Why India may be in the third stage of the coronavirus pandemic Coronavirus outbreak: Positive COVID-19 cases shoot up to 160 in Maharashtra Coronavirus outbreak: Patients suffering from COVID-19 shows sign of recovery in Uttarakhand 69 year old is first fatality from Kerala due to coronavirus Ramp up efforts during lockdown period to fight COVID-19 says veteran virologist Test awaited as Bengaluru scientist claims this device can neutralise coronavirus COVID-19: Case of negligence registered against MP journo who attended Kamal Nath presser Fake: Lemon and turmeric do not prevent coronavirus India gears up to tackle community spread of coronavirus Coronavirus outbreak: Scientists in Pune capture first image of COVID-19 For Breaking News and Instant Updates Allow Notifications You have already subscribed Comments Read more about: coronavirus health ministry Story first published: Saturday, March 28, 2020, 10:33 [IST] Other articles published on Mar 28, 2020 Entire country needs to shutdown for 6 to 10 weeks to bounce back: Bill Gates on Covid-19 Kolkata: KMC reserves burial grounds, cremation centre for Coronavirus victims Thrissur district ramps up facilities to meet any Coronavirus eventuality Featured Posts For Daily Alerts Oneindia in Other Languages বাংলা ગુજરાતી हिन्दी ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം தமிழ் తెలుగు Explore Oneindia News India Sports Videos Cricket Features Coupons Business International Football Follow Oneindia Daily Updates About Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Apps | RSS | Advertise with Us | Work for Us | Contact Us | Feedback | Sitemap | Cookie Policy © One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. All Rights Reserved. The "ONEINDIA" word mark and logo are owned by One.in Digitech Media Pvt. Ltd. Close Get Instant News Updates Enable x Notification Settings X Time Settings Don't Block Block for 8 hours Block for 12 hours Block for 24 hours Dont send alerts during 1 am 2 am 3 am 4 am 5 am 6 am 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm 11 pm 12 am to 1 am 2 am 3 am 4 am 5 am 6 am 7 am 8 am 9 am 10 am 11 am 12 pm 1 pm 2 pm 3 pm 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm 7 pm 8 pm 9 pm 10 pm 11 pm 12 am Switch Off Clear My notification inbox Done Clear Notification X Do you want to clear all the notifications from your inbox? Yes No Settings X 0 No New Notifications X We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. This includes cookies from third party social media websites and ad networks. Such third party cookies may track your use on Oneindia sites for better rendering. Our partners use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you. If you continue without changing your settings, we'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on Oneindia website. However, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Learn more Change Settings Continue X