University of Phoenix Bachelor of Science Business Information Systems
 University of Phoenix Bachelor of Science Business Information S...       Home : Distance Learning : Degree : Bachelor Degree : Bachelor in Business Administration University of Phoenix - Bachelor of Science - Business - Information Systems   University of Phoenix Bachelor of Science Business Information Systems Request! Information from: Email me this page. Add to MyList View MyList The Bachelor of Science in Business/Information Systems is designed to enable graduates to deal effectively with information technology components that have become an integral part of today's increasingly complex business environment. The program stresses skill development in the technical areas of computer hardware and software architecture, file and data structures, systems analysis and design, programming, software engineering, telecommunications, and management of the information systems function. Each student completes a major project in an information systems area that is related to his or her professional responsibilities and that demonstrates the ability to integrate a variety of business and technical skills in the solution of a problem. ©2003-2007 University of Phoenix, Inc. All rights reserved. Degree Requirements Must have at least a(n): High School Diploma/GED State/Province Restrictions Apply United States, Canada Available Locations Choose a different location University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix University of Phoenix Atlanta Campus Atlanta Campus Atlanta Campus Boston Campus Boston Campus Boston Campus University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International University of Phoenix Online International Austin Campus Austin Campus Calgary Campus Calgary Campus Augusta Campus Augusta Campus Request FREE Information from University of Phoenix Now!                About this school     University of Phoenix   You work hard. A college degree does too. With convenient class locations as well as online learning, University of Phoenix makes quality higher education highly accessible. Whether you're seeking an associate's, bachelor's, master's or doctoral degree, we can help you reach your goal while you work-and much sooner than you might expect. In fact, University of Phoenix has helped thousands of students achieve the higher education they need to achieve higher success. We can help you too. Higher education. Highly accessible. Founded in 1976, University of Phoenix is dedicated to meeting the needs of working students. Now the largest private university in North America, we have nearly 200 campuses and learning centers as well as a flexible online learning format available in most countries around the world. Regardless of where or how you attend class, you'll receive a real-world education with real value. Earn your degree sooner than you think. Attend class at times and places that fit your busy schedule. Learn from instructors who hold advanced degrees and have substantial experience in the fields they teach. Acquire valuable knowledge and skills. Receive personal attention in small, interactive classes. Effectively apply what you learn to your career. Get a real-world education. Perhaps you're new to college and seeking an associate's degree. Maybe you're ready to complete your bachelor's or advanced degree. Either way, University of Phoenix is here to help. We offer a wide variety of degree programs in campus-based and online formats that meet your needs and interests as a working student in today's workplace. Program availability varies by location and format. Earn your degree when, where and how you want. At University of Phoenix, you can choose a learning format that fits your lifestyle and learning style. Depending upon the degree program you select, you can attend classes on campus or online. Some campuses offer a combined campus-based and online learning format. While widely available, not all learning formats are offered at all locations. Campus-Based Learning Format Providing the convenience of attending classes near your home or workplace. Attend class just once a week. Classes are held in the evening and on weekends. Some campuses offer day classes. Complete assignments on your own, as well as with your learning team. Online Learning Format Providing the flexibility of an online education. Complete coursework through electronic forums. Receive lectures, questions and assignments from your instructor electronically. Study them at your convenience. Log in at least four days per week for University of Phoenix courses, or three days per week for associate's degree courses through Axia College of University of Phoenix. You choose the days and times. Build teamwork skills by collaborating on additional assignments with a learning team. Your degree is within reach. At University of Phoenix, we strive to make higher education highly accessible. Financial options, including financial aid, are available for those who qualify. Options include: Financial Aid Several low-interest financial aid options are available. University of Phoenix participates in many federal student aid programs, including the Stafford Student Loan, the PLUS Loan and the Pell Grant. There is no charge for processing financial aid applications, and your enrollment representative can walk you through the process while helping you with your application for admission. Financing Options University of Phoenix offers numerous options for financing your education. Our cash-paying plans let you pay for one course at a time rather than an entire semester or year at once. Alternatively, pre-paying tuition will guarantee that your rate will not increase for the duration of your program. Company Funding University of Phoenix is eligible for most company reimbursement programs. In fact, 45 percent of our students receive all or part of their tuition from their employers. Quality counts. University of Phoenix is a private institution of higher learning founded in Phoenix, Arizona, in 1976. The University's central administration is located at 4615 E. Elwood St., Phoenix, AZ 85040. The Online Campus is located at 3157 E. Elwood St., Phoenix, AZ 85034. Axia College is a college of University of Phoenix. The University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission and is a member of the North Central Association (www.ncahlc.org). The Associate of Arts in Business, Associate of Arts in Accounting, Bachelor of Science in Business, Master of Business Administration, Executive Master of Business Administration, Master of Management, Doctor of Management and Doctor of Business Administration programs are accredited by the Association of Collegiate Business Schools and Programs (www.acbsp.org). The Bachelor of Science in Nursing and Master of Science in Nursing programs are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (www.aacn.nche.edu). The Master of Science in Counseling program in Community Counseling (Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona campuses) and the Master of Science in Counseling program in Mental Health Counseling (Salt Lake City, Utah campuses) are accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP; www.cacrep.org). Florida: University of Phoenix is licensed by the Florida Commission for Independent Education, License No. 2308. Georgia: University of Phoenix is authorized under the Nonpublic Postsecondary Educational Institutions Act of 1990. Indiana: Fully accredited by the Indiana Commission for Postsecondary Proprietary Education. AC-0188. Indianapolis Campus is located at 7999 Knue Road, Suites 100 & 500, Indianapolis, IN 46250; Northwest Indiana Campus is located at 8401 Ohio Street, Merrillville, IN 46410. Ohio: Registration Number is 1154320. Cleveland Campus is located at 5005 Rockside Road, Suite 130, Independence, OH 44131-2194; Cincinnati Campus is located at 9050 Centre Pointe Drive, Suite 250, West Chester, OH 45069-4875; Columbus Campus is located at 8415 Pulsar Place, Suite 100, Columbus, OH 43240-4032. South Carolina: Licensed by the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education. The campus is located at 1001 Pinnacle Point Drive, Columbia, SC 29223. Tennessee: Memphis Campus is located at 65 Germantown Court, Suite 100, Cordova, TN 38018; Nashville Campus is located at 616 Marriott Drive, Suite 150, Nashville, TN 37214; Franklin Campus is located at 377 Riverside Drive, Franklin, TN 37064; Chattanooga Campus is located at 1208 Pointe Centre Drive, Chattanooga, TN 37421. Virginia: State Council of Higher Education for Virginia has authorized University of Phoenix to offer degree or certificate programs. Any course, degree or certificate program offered has been approved by the University of Phoenix governing board. Credit earned for coursework in Virginia can be transferred to University of Phoenix's principal location outside Virginia as part of the University's existing degree or certificate programs. Alberta: University of Phoenix is approved to offer specific degree programs by Alberta Advanced Education. Degrees are conferred by University of Phoenix through its Central Administration office, located in Phoenix, Arizona. British Columbia: The term "university"is used under the written consent of the Minister of Advanced Education, effective December 20, 2006, having undergone a quality assessment process and been found to meet the criteria established by the minister. Degrees are conferred by University of Phoenix through its Central Administration office, located in Phoenix, Arizona. Puerto Rico: University of Phoenix operates under a renewal license granted by the Puerto Rico Council on Higher Education. One university understands how you live today. And where you want to go tomorrow. University of Phoenix. Thinking ahead. 003-2007 University of Phoenix, Inc. All rights reserved.   Recommends list   A T Still University Online Master of Science in Human Movement A T Still University Online Master of Health Education American InterContinental University Online American InterContinental University Online Associate of Arts in Business Administration Criminal Justice Administration American InterContinental University Online Associate of Arts in Business Administration Healthcare Administration American InterContinental University Online Associate of Arts in Business Administration Human Resources American InterContinental University Online Bachelor of Business Administration Accounting and Finance American InterContinental University Online Bachelor of Business Administration Healthcare Management American InterContinental University Online Bachelor of Business Administration Management American InterContinental University Online Bachelor of Business Administration Marketing         Copyright 2001-2008 Universities.com distance learning site map