JUSTIFICATION OF PROGRAM AND PERFORMANCE Activity: General Management Plans 2001 Enacted To Date General Management Planning Special Resource Studies Environmental Impact Statement Planning Total Requirements $(000) 7,883 1,322 1,996 11,201 2002 Budget Request 7,922 1,322 1,996 11,240 Change From 2001 (+/-) +39 +0 +0 +39 AUTHORIZATION 16 U.S.C. 1, and 1a-5 42 U.S.C. 4321 Public Law 102-154 OVERVIEW Prepare and maintain up-to-date plans to guide National Park Service actions for the protection, use, development, and management of each park unit; prepare strategic plans to guide the future of the System; complete environmental impact statements for special projects, and conduct studies of alternatives for the protection of areas that may have potential for addition to the National Park System. APPLICABLE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE MISSION GOALS Ia Ib IIa IIb Natural and cultural resources and associated values are protected, restored and maintained in good condition and managed within their broader ecosystem and cultural context. The National Park Service contributes to knowledge about natural and cultural resources and associated values; management decisions about resources and visitors are based on adequate scholarly and scientific information. Visitors safely enjoy and are satisfied with the availability, accessibility, diversity, and quality of park facilities, services, and appropriate recreational opportunities. Park visitors and the general public understand and appreciate the preservation of parks and their resources for this and future generations. Activity Description The General Management Plans activity is divided into two distinct functions: 1. General Management and Strategic Planning................................................................................................$7,922,000 The National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978 directs the NPS to prepare and revise in a timely manner "General Management Plans for the preservation and use of each unit of the National Park System." General Management Plans (GMPs) establish specific goals and objectives, a basic philosophy for management, and strategies for resolving major issues related to park purposes as defined by Congress. GMPs are required by law to include: (1) measures for preservation of the area's resources, (2) indications of the type and general intensity of development including visitor circulation and transportation patterns along with locations, timing, and anticipated costs, (3) identification of visitor carrying capacities, and (4) indications of potential modifications to the external boundaries of the unit. NPS-355 Construction and Major Maintenance/General Management Plans General management plans provide the basic guidance for how the park will carry out responsibilities for protection of park resources unimpaired for future generations while providing for appropriate visitor use and enjoyment. The GMP also provides a framework for coordinating interpretive programs, maintenance, facility development, and resource management to promote efficient operations. Priorities for funding general management planning projects are determined by an evaluation of issues confronting the parks and statutory requirements for recently authorized additions to the National Park System. In FY 2002, a system based on the choosing by advantages methodology will continue to be used to determine priorities for GMP starts and maintain accountability for completion of projects within estimated budgets. An updated priority list is scheduled to be in place by June 15, 2001. Plans are prepared by interdisciplinary teams including the park superintendent and staff, landscape architects, community planners, and specialists in natural and cultural resources, environmental design, concessions management, interpretation, public involvement and other fields as needed. Consistent with recommendations by the National Academy of Public Administration, approximately 60 percent of the Service's general management planning work is accomplished by the Denver Service Center, with the balance accomplished by staff in support offices and by contractors. The planning process includes extensive consultation with the public to clearly define park purpose and significance, goals and objectives, identify desired future conditions, and evaluate alternatives. A final, approved planning document is only one obvious result of the planning process. Some other important results of general management planning include community understanding of park mission and goals, guidance on appropriate treatments for natural and cultural resources, coordination with State and local officials and other agencies, and cooperation with adjacent land managers and property owners. Plans also evaluate environmental consequences and socioeconomic impacts, estimate differences in costs, and identify phasing for implementation. Cooperation with park neighbors and mitigation of potential impacts on park resources are especially important results of management planning. In FY 2002, emphasis will continue to be placed on projects that produce realistic plans that consider fiscal constraints on the Federal Government, promote partnerships to help accomplish results, and support creative solutions to management challenges that do not necessarily depend on development of new facilities. NPS guidelines indicate that general management plans should be designed for a ten to fifteen year timeframe. While plans for some units are viable for more than fifteen years, many others become obsolete in less than five years. Changes in resource conditions, public use patterns, external influences, and legislated boundaries often come more frequently than expected. Many plans approved in past years envision a level of new development and staffing that is not likely to be realized in the foreseeable future, so these plans need to be revised. As of December 31, 2000, more than 200 parks lack a GMP or have one that is more than fifteen years old and overdue to be replaced or substantially amended. The GMP program also supports management planning for units of the National Trails System, Wild and Scenic Rivers, Affiliated Areas and other special projects where Congress has directed the NPS to prepare a management plan in cooperation with others. The National Park Service is continuing efforts to streamline its planning function and improve services to parks and the public. In FY 2002, a small portion of the program will continue to provide a variety of planning services to meet needs defined by parks and their partners without necessarily completing all of the steps in a traditional general management plan. Linkages between general management planning and other strategic and operational planning in the National Park Service also will continue to be improved. Planning at various levels of detail will help support the performance management system developed to meet requirements of the Government Performance and Results Act. In FY 2000, general management plans for ten units were completed. The rate of plan completion in FY 2000 was below target primarily because of staff reductions in the Denver Service Center and competing commitments in support offices. Many projects also were delayed by requests for additional opportunities for public comment. The rate of completion is expected to improve as more contractors develop experience in completing GMP projects. Plans for 31 units are tentatively scheduled for completion in FY 2001 anticipating that some delays will still allow meeting a target of 25 completions. The time and cost to complete many general management plans reflects factors beyond the immediate control of the NPS such as the increased demands for extended consultation with a wide variety of interested individuals and organizations, coordination with State and local governments, tribal governments, and other Federal agencies. The requested level of funding for FY 2002 would provide for a sustainable level of NPS-356 Construction and Major Maintenance/General Management Plans planning to meet legislative requirements. Following is a list of general management planning projects scheduled for completion in FY 2001 and proposed work for FY 2002. This list is tentative at this time because some projects could be completed ahead of schedule in FY 2001 while others might be delayed to coordinate with schedules of other agencies, partners, or the public. GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLANS SCHEDULED FOR COMPLETION IN FY 2001 Arkansas Post National Memorial, Arkansas Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area, Tennessee Boston African American National Historic Site, Massachusetts Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area, Massachusetts Cane River Creole National Historical Park, Louisiana Cane River National Heritage Area, Louisiana Civil War Defenses of Washington, District of Columbia Colonial National Historical Park, Green Spring Unit, Virginia Dry Tortugas National Park, Florida Fort Bowie National Historic Site, Arizona Fort Stanwix National Monument, New York Glen Echo Park, Maryland Great Sand Dunes National Monument and Preserve, Colorado Hampton National Historic Site, Maryland Joshua Tree National Park, California Little River Canyon National Preserve, Alabama Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site, New York Mount Rainier National Park, Washington New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park, Massachusetts Nicodemus National Historic Site, Kansas Petersburg National Battlefield, Virginia Sunset Crater Volcano National Monument, Arizona Tallgrass Prairie National Preserve, Kansas Tonto National Monument, Arizona Voyageurs National Park, Minnesota Walnut Canyon National Monument, Arizona Washita Battlefield National Historic Site, Oklahoma Wilson's Creek National Battlefield, Missouri Wupatki National Monument, Arizona Zion National Park, Utah ANTICIPATED FY 2002 GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLANNING WORK ONGOING PROJECTS Acadia National Park, Maine Anacostia Park, District of Columbia Appomattox Courthouse National Historical Park, Virginia Badlands National Park, South Dakota Big Bend National Park, Texas Big Cypress National Preserve, Florida NPS-357 Construction and Major Maintenance/General Management Plans ANTICIPATED FY 2002 GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLANNING WORK (continued) Big Thicket National Preserve, Texas Biscayne National Park, Florida Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site, North Carolina Channel Islands National Park, California Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area, Georgia Coronado National Memorial, Arizona Crater Lake National Park, Oregon Death Valley National Park, California Denali National Park, Alaska Devils Tower National Monument, Wyoming Ebey's Landing National Historical Reserve, Washington Everglades National Park, Florida Fort Davis National Historic Site, Texas Fort Frederica National Monument, Georgia Fort Pulaski National Monument, Georgia Fort Vancouver National Historic Site, Washington Grand Canyon-Parashant National Monument, Arizona Grand Portage National Monument, Minnesota Guadalupe Mountains National Park, Texas Kenai Fjords National Park, Alaska Lassen Volcanic National Park, California Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial, Indiana Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site, Arkansas Manassas National Battlefield Park, Virginia Mary McLeod Bethune Council House National Historic Site, District of Columbia Maurice Scenic and Recreational River, New Jersey Mojave National Preserve, California Morristown National Historical Park, New Jersey Niobrara National Scenic River, Nebraska Pea Ridge National Military Park, Arkansas Petrified Forest National Park, Arizona Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore, Michigan Pinnacles National Monument, California Pipestone National Monument, Minnesota Point Reyes National Seashore, California Rio Grande Wild and Scenic River, Texas Rock Creek Park, District of Columbia Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical Park, California Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, California Saratoga National Historical Park, New York Saugus Iron Works National Historic Site, Massachusetts Selma to Montgomery National Historic Trail, Alabama Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks, California Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore, Michigan Thomas Cole National Historic Site, New York Wilson's Creek National Battlefield, Missouri NPS-358 Construction and Major Maintenance/General Management Plans RECENTLY AUTHORIZED UNITS AND POTENTIAL NEW STARTS in FY 2002 Blue Ridge Parkway, North Carolina Castillo de San Marcos National Monument, Florida Catoctin Mountain Park, Maryland Craters of the Moon National Monument, Idaho El Camino Real de Tierra Adentro, Texas and New Mexico First Ladies National Historic Site, Ohio Fallen Timbers Battlefield, Ohio Lake Meredith National Recreation Area, Texas Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument, Montana Minute Man Missile National Historic Site, South Dakota Martin Luther King, Jr., National Historic Site, Georgia New River Gorge National River, West Virginia Sagamore Hill National Historic Site, New York San Juan Island National Historical Park, Washington Another major component of the Service's multi-year planning function is the strategic planning program which ensures the NPS and its leadership has a focused systematic approach to developing long-term strategies and the continuous organizational development needed to address changing social, political, economic, and demographic realities. This program participates in the development and implementation of major Servicewide initiatives that involve long-range planning in support of the mission and goals of the NPS. Another major responsibility for this program is ongoing coordination of Servicewide implementation of the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 (GPRA). In FY 2000, the second National Park Service Strategic Plan (2000-2005) was published and distributed with updated and additional Servicewide performance goals. Servicewide information and guidance providing organizational support for a field-oriented process of GPRA implementation is provided through a National Park Service Field Guide to Performance Management. Annual performance plans are produced in conjunction with each fiscal year budget request cycle. Work will continue in fiscal year 2002 for Servicewide GPRA and performance management implementation through: (1) ongoing coordination of the second National Park Service Strategic Plan implementation, (2) preparation and/or revision of Servicewide Fiscal Year 2002 and 2003 Annual Performance Plans that parallel the budget formulation process, (3) preparation of Servicewide Annual Performance Report for FY 2001, (4) ongoing participation in preparation and revision of departmental strategic plan, and NPS Annual Performance Plans and Reports, (5) extensive coordination with five Servicewide goal groups (natural, cultural, visitors, external partnerships, and organizational effectiveness) on refinement of Servicewide goals, development of strategies to achieve goals, identification of external factors affecting goal achievement, data refinement, verification and validation, and program evaluations, (6) ongoing Servicewide training for performance management and GPRA implementation, (7) extensive coordination with Regional GPRA coordinators and support to park and programs in their implementation of performance management and extensive training of regional goal subject matter experts, (8) refinement and conversion of Servicewide electronic performance management reporting system, (9) extensive performance data analysis and evaluation, and performance data verification and validation, and (10) the ongoing refinement of linkages with operations, information systems, budget formulation and financial reporting systems, planning, and personnel. 2. Special Resource Studies..............................................................................................................................$1,322,000 As directed by Congress (16 U.S.C. 1a-5), the National Park Service monitors resources that exhibit qualities of national significance and conducts studies where specifically authorized to determine if areas have potential for inclusion in the National Park System. Special resource studies collect information about candidate areas to determine if they meet established criteria for significance, suitability, and feasibility as potential additions to the National Park System. These studies also evaluate alternative concepts for protection by others outside of the National Park System. The primary purposes of the study program are to provide information for Congress in evaluating the quality of NPS-359 Construction and Major Maintenance/General Management Plans potential new park units, and to encourage the protection of important resources in ways that will not impose undue pressure on the limited fiscal resources available for existing NPS units. In 2001, the NPS had 35 studies in progress. Seventeen of these were continuing from prior authorizations, fourteen were authorized in FY 2000, and four were authorized in FY 2001. Over the past 20 years only about one in every four or five studies finds that an area is eligible for inclusion in the National Park System. The study program has included many projects directed by Congress where the NPS and the community have agreed that existing programs of technical or financial assistance are preferable to the establishment of a new park with long-term management responsibilities and major funding commitments for the NPS. Experience to date has indicated that adequately funded studies help defend the integrity of the park system against expansions into areas that fail to meet established standards, while allowing for a few carefully selected new units that are of outstanding importance to the national heritage. Public Law 105-391, enacted on November 13, 1998, updated the process for considering new additions to the National Park System. Each new study proposal is required to be forwarded to Congress and specifically authorized. The study program in 2001 and in 2002 will focus on completing projects previously directed by Congress to evaluate important resources and find ways to protect them that do not necessarily involve Federal land acquisition or long-term commitments for management and operations by the NPS. These studies will place an increased emphasis on examining the full life-cycle operation and maintenance costs that would result from a newly created or expanded park unit or some other NPS funding responsibility. In FY 2001, twelve projects authorized in previous years are scheduled for completion, with most of those studies recommending alternatives to the creation of new NPS units. Following is a list of special resource study projects expected to be ongoing in FY 2002. The Department will soon submit, in accordance with Public Law 105-391, (1) a list of areas, if any, that it would recommend for study for potential inclusion in the National Park System, and (2) two lists of previously studied areas (one for historical sites and one for natural resource sites) in order of priority for addition to the National Park System. In general, the Department intends to focus its attention and resources on taking care of existing responsibilities, such as addressing facility maintenance needs, rather than continuing the rapid expansion of new NPS responsibilities. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDIES SCHEDULED FOR COMPLETION IN FY 2001 Androscoggin Valley, New Hampshire Angel Island Immigration Center, California Blood Run National Historic Landmark, Iowa Champlain Valley Heritage Corridor, Vermont Fort Hunter Liggett, California Hawaii Area Sites, Hawaii Ice Age Floods, Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana Loess Hills, Iowa Northern Frontier, New York Robert R. Moton High School, Virginia Shenandoah Valley Battlefields, Virginia Susan B. Anthony House, New York PREVIOUSLY AUTHORIZED AND ONGOING STUDIES IN FY 2002 Anderson Cottage, District of Columbia Battle of Homestead and Carrie Furnace, Pennsylvania Bioluminescent Bays, Puerto Rico Carter G. Woodson Home, District of Columbia Chesapeake Bay Sites, Maryland and Virginia Civil Rights Sites, Multi-State NPS-360 Construction and Major Maintenance/General Management Plans PREVIOUSLY AUTHORIZED AND ONGOING STUDIES IN FY 2002 (continued) Crossroads of the American Revolution, New Jersey Ferry Farm, Virginia Fort King, Florida Gaviota Coast, California Gullah Culture, South Carolina, Florida, Texas, Oklahoma, Georgia Harriet Tubman Sites, New York and Maryland Kate Mullaney House, New York Lincoln Highway, Multi-State Upper Housatonic River Valley, Connecticut Vicksburg Campaign Trail, Multi-State Walden Pond and Woods, Massachusetts Washington and Rochambeau in the American Revolutionary War, Multi-State World War II Sites in Marianas World War II Sites in Peleiu 3. Environmental Impact Statement Planning and Compliance.....................................................$1,996,000 The National Park Omnibus Management Act of 1998 and the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) require park management decisions to be based on a full examination of alternatives and impacts and opportunities for public involvement. This program enhances the National Park Service's ability to prepare environmental impact statements and fulfill other environmental planning and evaluations required by law. This requirement includes resource related actions and projects that do not fit within the normal scope of the construction program or the general management planning program. Management decisions on bison at Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks, wildlife population and control measures in eastern parks, planning for land exchanges with local governments, and personal watercraft use where they are authorized are among the issues being evaluated during FY 2001. This funding allows the requisite planning and environmental evaluations to take place so that decisions on these and other issues can go forward without using park base funding for preparation of environmental documents that are not within normally anticipated funding. Funds are used to support technically proficient project leaders to work with park based specialists in preparing complex documents, facilitate public and agency reviews, and help ensure that decisions are legally and environmentally sustainable. Anticipated results include better conditions for park resources, improved quality of visitor experiences, decisions that are not successfully challenged in court, and reduced costs for projects conducted under court mandated schedules. NPS-361