Opinion | Don’t judge these wines at the LCBO by their labels | FlamboroughReview.com Don’t judge these wines at the LCBO by their labels Opinion 03:04 PM by Carolyn Evans Hammond Toronto Star Wines with gimmicky packaging — from wacky labels to unusual bottle shapes — call into question the quality of the juice itself. Yet some wines with unconventional packaging can be surprisingly delicious. Here’s a roundup of gimmicky wines at the LCBO, revealing which ones are actually good. Topping the list are the new aluminum bottles of Sterling Vineyards Chardonnay and Sterling Vineyards Cabernet Sauvignon from California that hit shelves in December. Their tall, narrow, brushed-metal silhouettes look rather attractive. The shape calls to mind S’well water bottles with their wide-mouthed metal design — so refreshingly modern. And each resealable and recyclable can holds a handy 375mL of wine, so about two generous servings. I was hopeful that the wine would measure up to the new packaging, but I had my reservations because most wine in cans isn’t very good. So I cracked the lid of the NV Sterling Vineyards Chardonnay (LCBO 11988, $9.95/375mL) and poured a glass. It shines pale yellow with white gold inflections and exudes airy, attractive aromas of chilled buttercream and lemon zest. The attack is taut and vivid, seamless and silky, offering immediate pleasure. How heartening. The lifted flavours suggest freshly rolled pastry, pounded nuts and cool lemon curd pierced by a beam of mouth-watering acidity. Then it tapers to a fairly long finish of nougat. This medium-bodied, barrel-aged Chardonnay tastes poised and quite well-balanced. Elegant even. Definitely worth keeping on your radar. Especially for those times you want to chuck a couple cans in your backpack for a mid-hike picnic in the coming months. Score: 91 The NV Sterling Vineyards Cabernet Sauvignon (LCBO 11989, $9.95/375mL) is less compelling. It lacks the complexity, concentration and length I’d want in a wine at this price. It’s not bad, just a bit average. Think medium-bodied with flavours of red fruit laced with a touch of toasty oak. Balanced, quenching, but pretty average and a bit overpriced. Score: 87. A more interesting Cabernet Sauvignon worth your attention comes from South Africa. Just don’t be put off by the gimmicky label that calls to mind superhero comics with its loud lettering, retro look and bright colours. I’m talking about the new 2017 Vinologist Cabernet Sauvignon from Stellenbosch (LCBO 10416, $12.95), released in October. This red draws you in with a beautiful perfume of blackcurrant liqueur and cedar laced with melting chocolate. Then it saturates the palate with a swirl of medium-bodied fruit: macerated berries, violet and a touch of toasted hazelnut that lingers. Quite a lot of finesse for the price. Score: 90+ The white counterpart to this wine is even better: 2019 Vinologist Sauvignon Blanc from Stellenbosch (LCBO 10417 $12.95) is bright and aromatic with scents of sliced pear, green mango and a touch of torn oregano. The attack is focused and delicate, brisk and mouth-watering, with lean, long flavours of lime zest, cut stone and struck steel. Then the finish resonates with dried herbs and sea salt. Just brilliant value for the money. Score: 93 Here in Ontario, no one makes more gimmicky-looking labels than Megalomaniac winery in Niagara. Their portfolio is packed with such cheeky names as Bubblehead sparkling, Frank Cabernet and Bravado Cabernet Sauvignon, Pink Slip Rosé and many more. Yet, Megalomaniac makes some of the most nuanced, sophisticated wines in the province — especially at the higher end. To taste what I’m on about, pick up a bottle of 2018 Megalomaniac Sparkling Personality, VQA Ontario, now widely available (LCBO 469007 and at the winery, $19.95). This pure, sparkling Riesling with laser-focus shimmers with an intense lime sorbet flavour laced with apricot, green apple and white flowers. Its bright acidity, kiss of sweetness and light (9.5 per cent) alcohol make it fabulous cocktail-style wine — especially with a handful of salted, roasted nuts. Easy win. Score: 92 Lastly, I tasted the recently released 2017 Belle Glos “Dairyman” Pinot Noir from the Russian River Valley in Sonoma (Vintages 366013, $59.95). You may have seen this eye-catching bottle on shelves recently with its whole bottle neck dipped in red wax, which is definitely a gimmicky look. Thankfully, there’s a tab near the top that lets you tear off the wax to expose the cork. Buyer beware. This is not an elegant Pinot Noir. The wine itself is deep purple with an almost opaque core and robust aromas of poached berries. This rich scent leads to a sweet, heavy, mouth-coating blast of very forward fruit and tastes almost spoonable with its flavours of maraschino cherries, toasted marshmallow and blackcurrant liqueur. Then it tapers to a short finish. Not a wine I’d be buying any time soon. Score: 87. There you have it. Some gimmicky wines that actually deliver — and a couple that don’t. Just proves you can’t always judge a wine by its label. – Carolyn Evans Hammond is a Toronto-based wine writer and a freelance contributing columnist for the Star. Reach her via email: carolyn@carolynevanshammond.com Don’t judge these wines at the LCBO by their labels Opinion 03:04 PM by Carolyn Evans Hammond Toronto Star Wines with gimmicky packaging — from wacky labels to unusual bottle shapes — call into question the quality of the juice itself. Yet some wines with unconventional packaging can be surprisingly delicious. Here’s a roundup of gimmicky wines at the LCBO, revealing which ones are actually good. Topping the list are the new aluminum bottles of Sterling Vineyards Chardonnay and Sterling Vineyards Cabernet Sauvignon from California that hit shelves in December. Their tall, narrow, brushed-metal silhouettes look rather attractive. The shape calls to mind S’well water bottles with their wide-mouthed metal design — so refreshingly modern. And each resealable and recyclable can holds a handy 375mL of wine, so about two generous servings. I was hopeful that the wine would measure up to the new packaging, but I had my reservations because most wine in cans isn’t very good. So I cracked the lid of the NV Sterling Vineyards Chardonnay (LCBO 11988, $9.95/375mL) and poured a glass. It shines pale yellow with white gold inflections and exudes airy, attractive aromas of chilled buttercream and lemon zest. The attack is taut and vivid, seamless and silky, offering immediate pleasure. How heartening. The lifted flavours suggest freshly rolled pastry, pounded nuts and cool lemon curd pierced by a beam of mouth-watering acidity. Then it tapers to a fairly long finish of nougat. This medium-bodied, barrel-aged Chardonnay tastes poised and quite well-balanced. Elegant even. Definitely worth keeping on your radar. Especially for those times you want to chuck a couple cans in your backpack for a mid-hike picnic in the coming months. Score: 91 The NV Sterling Vineyards Cabernet Sauvignon (LCBO 11989, $9.95/375mL) is less compelling. It lacks the complexity, concentration and length I’d want in a wine at this price. It’s not bad, just a bit average. Think medium-bodied with flavours of red fruit laced with a touch of toasty oak. Balanced, quenching, but pretty average and a bit overpriced. Score: 87. A more interesting Cabernet Sauvignon worth your attention comes from South Africa. Just don’t be put off by the gimmicky label that calls to mind superhero comics with its loud lettering, retro look and bright colours. I’m talking about the new 2017 Vinologist Cabernet Sauvignon from Stellenbosch (LCBO 10416, $12.95), released in October. This red draws you in with a beautiful perfume of blackcurrant liqueur and cedar laced with melting chocolate. Then it saturates the palate with a swirl of medium-bodied fruit: macerated berries, violet and a touch of toasted hazelnut that lingers. Quite a lot of finesse for the price. Score: 90+ The white counterpart to this wine is even better: 2019 Vinologist Sauvignon Blanc from Stellenbosch (LCBO 10417 $12.95) is bright and aromatic with scents of sliced pear, green mango and a touch of torn oregano. The attack is focused and delicate, brisk and mouth-watering, with lean, long flavours of lime zest, cut stone and struck steel. Then the finish resonates with dried herbs and sea salt. Just brilliant value for the money. Score: 93 Here in Ontario, no one makes more gimmicky-looking labels than Megalomaniac winery in Niagara. Their portfolio is packed with such cheeky names as Bubblehead sparkling, Frank Cabernet and Bravado Cabernet Sauvignon, Pink Slip Rosé and many more. Yet, Megalomaniac makes some of the most nuanced, sophisticated wines in the province — especially at the higher end. To taste what I’m on about, pick up a bottle of 2018 Megalomaniac Sparkling Personality, VQA Ontario, now widely available (LCBO 469007 and at the winery, $19.95). This pure, sparkling Riesling with laser-focus shimmers with an intense lime sorbet flavour laced with apricot, green apple and white flowers. Its bright acidity, kiss of sweetness and light (9.5 per cent) alcohol make it fabulous cocktail-style wine — especially with a handful of salted, roasted nuts. Easy win. Score: 92 Lastly, I tasted the recently released 2017 Belle Glos “Dairyman” Pinot Noir from the Russian River Valley in Sonoma (Vintages 366013, $59.95). You may have seen this eye-catching bottle on shelves recently with its whole bottle neck dipped in red wax, which is definitely a gimmicky look. Thankfully, there’s a tab near the top that lets you tear off the wax to expose the cork. Buyer beware. This is not an elegant Pinot Noir. The wine itself is deep purple with an almost opaque core and robust aromas of poached berries. This rich scent leads to a sweet, heavy, mouth-coating blast of very forward fruit and tastes almost spoonable with its flavours of maraschino cherries, toasted marshmallow and blackcurrant liqueur. Then it tapers to a short finish. Not a wine I’d be buying any time soon. Score: 87. There you have it. Some gimmicky wines that actually deliver — and a couple that don’t. Just proves you can’t always judge a wine by its label. – Carolyn Evans Hammond is a Toronto-based wine writer and a freelance contributing columnist for the Star. Reach her via email: carolyn@carolynevanshammond.com Top Stories Don’t judge these wines at the LCBO by their labels Opinion 03:04 PM by Carolyn Evans Hammond Toronto Star Wines with gimmicky packaging — from wacky labels to unusual bottle shapes — call into question the quality of the juice itself. Yet some wines with unconventional packaging can be surprisingly delicious. Here’s a roundup of gimmicky wines at the LCBO, revealing which ones are actually good. Topping the list are the new aluminum bottles of Sterling Vineyards Chardonnay and Sterling Vineyards Cabernet Sauvignon from California that hit shelves in December. Their tall, narrow, brushed-metal silhouettes look rather attractive. The shape calls to mind S’well water bottles with their wide-mouthed metal design — so refreshingly modern. And each resealable and recyclable can holds a handy 375mL of wine, so about two generous servings. I was hopeful that the wine would measure up to the new packaging, but I had my reservations because most wine in cans isn’t very good. So I cracked the lid of the NV Sterling Vineyards Chardonnay (LCBO 11988, $9.95/375mL) and poured a glass. It shines pale yellow with white gold inflections and exudes airy, attractive aromas of chilled buttercream and lemon zest. The attack is taut and vivid, seamless and silky, offering immediate pleasure. How heartening. The lifted flavours suggest freshly rolled pastry, pounded nuts and cool lemon curd pierced by a beam of mouth-watering acidity. Then it tapers to a fairly long finish of nougat. This medium-bodied, barrel-aged Chardonnay tastes poised and quite well-balanced. Elegant even. Definitely worth keeping on your radar. Especially for those times you want to chuck a couple cans in your backpack for a mid-hike picnic in the coming months. Score: 91 The NV Sterling Vineyards Cabernet Sauvignon (LCBO 11989, $9.95/375mL) is less compelling. It lacks the complexity, concentration and length I’d want in a wine at this price. It’s not bad, just a bit average. Think medium-bodied with flavours of red fruit laced with a touch of toasty oak. Balanced, quenching, but pretty average and a bit overpriced. Score: 87. A more interesting Cabernet Sauvignon worth your attention comes from South Africa. Just don’t be put off by the gimmicky label that calls to mind superhero comics with its loud lettering, retro look and bright colours. I’m talking about the new 2017 Vinologist Cabernet Sauvignon from Stellenbosch (LCBO 10416, $12.95), released in October. This red draws you in with a beautiful perfume of blackcurrant liqueur and cedar laced with melting chocolate. Then it saturates the palate with a swirl of medium-bodied fruit: macerated berries, violet and a touch of toasted hazelnut that lingers. Quite a lot of finesse for the price. Score: 90+ The white counterpart to this wine is even better: 2019 Vinologist Sauvignon Blanc from Stellenbosch (LCBO 10417 $12.95) is bright and aromatic with scents of sliced pear, green mango and a touch of torn oregano. The attack is focused and delicate, brisk and mouth-watering, with lean, long flavours of lime zest, cut stone and struck steel. Then the finish resonates with dried herbs and sea salt. Just brilliant value for the money. Score: 93 Here in Ontario, no one makes more gimmicky-looking labels than Megalomaniac winery in Niagara. Their portfolio is packed with such cheeky names as Bubblehead sparkling, Frank Cabernet and Bravado Cabernet Sauvignon, Pink Slip Rosé and many more. Yet, Megalomaniac makes some of the most nuanced, sophisticated wines in the province — especially at the higher end. To taste what I’m on about, pick up a bottle of 2018 Megalomaniac Sparkling Personality, VQA Ontario, now widely available (LCBO 469007 and at the winery, $19.95). This pure, sparkling Riesling with laser-focus shimmers with an intense lime sorbet flavour laced with apricot, green apple and white flowers. Its bright acidity, kiss of sweetness and light (9.5 per cent) alcohol make it fabulous cocktail-style wine — especially with a handful of salted, roasted nuts. Easy win. Score: 92 Lastly, I tasted the recently released 2017 Belle Glos “Dairyman” Pinot Noir from the Russian River Valley in Sonoma (Vintages 366013, $59.95). You may have seen this eye-catching bottle on shelves recently with its whole bottle neck dipped in red wax, which is definitely a gimmicky look. Thankfully, there’s a tab near the top that lets you tear off the wax to expose the cork. Buyer beware. This is not an elegant Pinot Noir. The wine itself is deep purple with an almost opaque core and robust aromas of poached berries. This rich scent leads to a sweet, heavy, mouth-coating blast of very forward fruit and tastes almost spoonable with its flavours of maraschino cherries, toasted marshmallow and blackcurrant liqueur. Then it tapers to a short finish. Not a wine I’d be buying any time soon. Score: 87. There you have it. Some gimmicky wines that actually deliver — and a couple that don’t. Just proves you can’t always judge a wine by its label. – Carolyn Evans Hammond is a Toronto-based wine writer and a freelance contributing columnist for the Star. Reach her via email: carolyn@carolynevanshammond.com Top Stories More News More News