Caribbean villa rental and hotel accommodation | Caribbean Unpackaged Barbados St Lucia Antigua Tobago Grenada Island Guide Find a Property Island: All Islands Tobago Antigua Barbados St Lucia Grenada Arriving On: Departing On: Price Per Night: All Prices Under £100 £100 - £300 £300 - £500 £500 - £1000 £1000 - £2000 £2000 - £3000 Over £3000 Number of Persons: Event Based: Any Adult All Inclusive Beachfront Boutique Children's Club Disabled Access Eco-Friendly Family Golf Holistic Honeymoon Luxury Nature Self-Catering Spa Sports Tennis Water Sports Wedding Accommodation Type: All Types Villa Hotel Apartment Villa Hotel Villas & Hotels Choose a Villa Choose a Villa Admiral's Quay No. 5, St Lucia Admiral's Quay No. 6, St Lucia Alhambra, Barbados Anchorage No. 2, St Lucia Aquamarine, Barbados Aquarius, Barbados Arawak House, Antigua Arc En Ciel, St Lucia Aurora, Barbados Aurora Lusso, Barbados Bali Hai, Barbados Bananaquit House, St Lucia Beau Rivage, St Lucia Belair, Barbados Bella Vista, St Lucia Bellevue Plantation Estate, Barbados Benjoli Breeze, Barbados Blue Heaven, Antigua Bluff Cottage, Barbados Bluff House, Barbados Bohemia, Barbados Bolly Dollies, Barbados Bougainvillea & Hibiscus, Tobago Buttsbury Court, Barbados Buttsbury House, Barbados Ca'Limbo (inc.Firefly Cottage), Barbados Cadasse, St Lucia Cadasse/Orchid, St Lucia Calliaqua, Barbados Calypso Court, St Lucia Canboulay, Tobago Cap Pavilion, St Lucia Caprice, Barbados Caribella, Grenada Casa Bella, Barbados Casa Ronka, Barbados Cassia 25, Barbados Ceiba, Barbados Chanel No. 5, Barbados Charlotte House, Antigua Chateau d'Espoir, Barbados Church Point Nos. 2 & 4, Barbados Cinnamon Beach, St Lucia Coco No. 13, Barbados Coconut Grove 1, Barbados Coconut Grove 8, Barbados Coconut Grove No. 12, Barbados Coconut Ridge No. 5, Barbados Cole House, Antigua Colina Del Mar, Barbados Coral Cove Cottages, Grenada Coral Gables, Barbados Coral House, Barbados Coral Sea Villas, Tobago Coral Sundown, Barbados Coral Vista, Antigua Coralita, Barbados Courland Villa, Tobago Cove Spring, Barbados Croeso, Barbados Crystal Springs, Barbados Darcy, St Lucia Date House, St Lucia Dene Court, Barbados Dickenson Bay Cottages, Antigua Dieppe Bay House, Antigua Dominique, Antigua Dudley Wood, Barbados Easy Reach, Barbados Eden-on-the-Sea Merlin Bay 2, Barbados Emerald Beach, Barbados Evergreen, Barbados Fairways, Tobago Fathom's End, Mahogany Bay, Barbados Firefly Merlin Bay #6, Barbados Forest Hills #16, Barbados Forest Hills #4, Barbados Fosters House, Barbados Galena, Barbados Gatcliffes, Tobago Gibbs Lodge, Barbados Ginger Lilies, Tobago Gingerbread Merlin Bay #7, Barbados Glade House, Barbados Go Easy, Barbados Golden Eye, Barbados Grand View Villas, St Lucia Green Monkey, Barbados Happy Trees, Barbados Heaven, St Lucia Hibiscus Merlin Bay #3, Barbados High Constantia, Barbados High Trees, Barbados Hummingbird, Grenada Hummingbird House, St Lucia Il Paradiso, Tobago Innisfree, Barbados Ixora, Barbados Jacaranda, Tobago Jalousie, Barbados Jessamine, Barbados Jolly Harbour Townhouse, Antigua Jonson, St Lucia Jotari, Barbados Keiros, Tobago Kings Beach Village, Barbados Kinnoull, St Lucia Klairan, Barbados Kulala, Antigua La Bagatelle, St Lucia La Colline, St Lucia La Fleur des Pitons, St Lucia La Fleur Petite, St Lucia La Paloma, St Lucia Landfall, Barbados Landmark House, Barbados Lazy Days, Tobago Le Gallerie, St Lucia Le Soleil Couchant, St Lucia Leamington Cottage, Barbados Leamington House, Barbados Leamington Pavilion, Barbados Leigh House, Barbados Light Castle, St Lucia Longview, St Lucia Maca Bana, Grenada Mahogany Pod, Barbados Man O'War House, Antigua Mandevilla, Tobago Mango Bay Villa, Barbados Mangotango, Tobago Maria Cove No. 4, St Lucia Milord, Barbados Mon Caprice, Barbados Mon Reve, Tobago Monkey Puzzle, Barbados Moon Reach, Barbados Morne Trulah, St Lucia Mullins Bay #10, Barbados Mullins Mill, Barbados Mullins View, Barbados Nelson Gay, Barbados New Mansion, Barbados Nicoli, Barbados Nirvana, Barbados No. 1 Reeds House, Barbados Nutmeg - Merlin Bay #4, Barbados Ocean View Merlin Bay #5, Barbados Ohana Villa, Tobago Orchid Cottage, St Lucia Oyster Bay, Barbados Pavilion Grove #4, Barbados Peponi, St Lucia Pepperpoint, St Lucia Plantation Beach Villas, Tobago Point of View, Barbados Porters Court, Barbados Prospect House, Barbados Quay Bay, St Lucia Raintree, Tobago Rock Cottage, Antigua Rodney Quay, St Lucia Rose of Sharon, Barbados Saline Reef, St Lucia San Flamingo, Barbados Sand Dollar, St Lucia Sand Dollar, Barbados Sandalwood House, Barbados Sea Acres, Barbados Sea Horse, Barbados Sea Shells, Tobago Seashells, Barbados Secret Garden Merlin Bay #8, Barbados Sehil Villa, Antigua Serendipity, St Lucia Seventh Heaven, Barbados Seventh Heaven, Tobago Smuggler's Nest, St Lucia Solandra, Barbados Solitaire, Tobago Soup Dance, Barbados Southwinds, Barbados St Remy, St Lucia Starfish, Barbados Sugar One, Barbados Sugarlands, Barbados Sundown, Barbados Sunset, St Lucia Sunwatch, Barbados Swallow, Grenada Tamarind Cottage, Barbados Tennis Villa B206, Barbados The Fourteenth Green, Tobago The Great House, Barbados The Manyatta, Barbados The Palms Villa Resort, Tobago The Summer House, Barbados Tradewinds, Barbados Tree Tops, St Lucia Treetops Cottage, Antigua Trouya Villa, St Lucia Turtle Nest, Barbados Valley Breeze, Antigua Villa Acacia, St Lucia Villa Ashiana, St Lucia Villa Bohemia, Barbados Villa Capri, Antigua Villa Capri, St Lucia Villa Decaj, St Lucia Villa Heather, Antigua Villa Melissa, Barbados Villa Mirage, Tobago Villa Motts, Tobago Villa Paradisso, St Lucia Villa Petrus, Tobago Villa Sariel, Antigua Villa Soleil, Tobago Villa St. Lucy, Barbados Villas at Stonehaven, Tobago Waverley 1, Barbados Wemsea, Barbados Westhaven, Barbados Wild Orchid, St Lucia Windance, Tobago Windward, Barbados Zandoli, St Lucia Choose an Apartment Choose an Apartment A104 Tennis Village, Barbados Apt. 501 South Ocean Villas, Barbados Aviary, Barbados B306 Tennis Village, Barbados Beach View, Barbados Beyond The Reef Lower, Barbados Beyond The Reef Upper, Barbados Bunker's Edge, Barbados C 310 Tennis Village, Barbados Cherry Tree Apartments, Barbados Cool Runnings, Barbados Coral Cove No. 1, Barbados Dolphins at Schooner Bay, Barbados Emerald Pearl, Barbados Eternity at Glitter Bay 201, Barbados Falmouth Harbour D1, Antigua Glitter Bay #207, Barbados Glitter Bay 107, Barbados Glitter Bay 303, Barbados James Bay Lower Apartment, Barbados La Mirage Old Trees (Penthouse), Barbados Lance Aux Epines Cottages, Grenada Leith Court Apt. 11, Barbados Leith Court Apt. 15, Barbados Leith Court Apt. 16, Barbados Leith Court No. 3, Barbados Little Seascape, Barbados Mantaray Bay No. 2, Barbados Princess Suite 306, Barbados Reeds House 2 bedrooms, Barbados Reeds House no. 10, Barbados Reeds House no. 5, Barbados Rydal Waters, Barbados Schooner Bay #203, Barbados Secret Cove, Barbados Serenity at Glitter Bay, Barbados Summerlands No. 101, Barbados Terraces No. 304, Barbados The Bolt Hole at Old Trees, Barbados The Casuarinas at Old Trees, Barbados Tradewinds, Barbados West Beach at Old Trees, Barbados West Shore, Barbados West Shore lower, Barbados Choose a Hotel Choose a Hotel Almond Beach Club & Spa, Barbados Almond Beach Village - All Inclusive, Barbados Almond Casuarina Beach, Barbados Almond Morgan Bay, St Lucia Almond Smugglers Cove, St Lucia Arnos Vale Hotel, Tobago Bay Gardens Beach Resort, St Lucia Bay Gardens Hotel, St Lucia Blue Horizons Garden Resort, Grenada Blue Orchids Beach Hotel, Barbados Blue Waters, Antigua Bougainvillea Beach Resort, Barbados Butterfly Beach Hotel, Barbados Calabash Hotel & Villas, Grenada Coco Palm, St Lucia Coco Reef Resort & Spa, Tobago Cocobay, Antigua Coconut Bay Resort and Spa, St Lucia Coconut Court Hotel, Barbados Cocos Hotel, Antigua Colony Club, Barbados Coral Mist Beach Hotel, Barbados Crystal Cove, Barbados Curtain Bluff, Antigua Discovery at Marigot Bay, St Lucia Divi Southwinds, Barbados Dover Beach Hotel, Barbados Enchanted Waters, Tobago Flamboyant Hotel, Grenada Galley Bay All Inclusive, Antigua Ginger Lily Hotel, St Lucia Grafton Beach Resort, Tobago Grand Pineapple Beach All Inclusive, Antigua Harmony Suites, St Lucia Hermitage Bay, Antigua Inn At English Harbour, Antigua Jalousie Plantation, St Lucia Jolly Beach Resort, Antigua Kariwak Village, Tobago Ladera, St Lucia Laluna, Grenada Le Grand Courlan Spa Resort, Tobago Mango Bay, Barbados Monmot, Grenada Rendezvous, St Lucia Rostrevor Apartments, Barbados Savannah, Barbados South Gap Hotel, Barbados Southern Palms Beach Club, Barbados Spice Island Beach Resort, Grenada St. James's Club, Antigua Sunswept Beach Hotel, Barbados Tamarind Cove, Barbados The House, Barbados The Verandah Resort and Spa, Antigua The Village Inn and Spa, St Lucia Time Out at The Gap, Barbados Toucan Inn, Tobago Tradewinds, Antigua Treasure Beach, Barbados True Blue Bay Resort & Villas, Grenada Turtle Beach Resort, Barbados Choose a Villa Hotel Choose a Villa Hotel Bel Air Plantation, Grenada Cotton Bay Village, St Lucia Little Good Harbour, Barbados Marigot Beach Club Hotel & Dive Resort, St Lucia Mount Cinnamon, Grenada Settler's Beach, Barbados True Blue Bay Villas, Grenada Windjammer Landing, St Lucia Newsletter Signup Name: E-mail Address: Island Guide Barbados – Island Guide Barbados is an island of 166 square miles, Barbados offers everything that the discerning holidaymaker might desire. Barbados has a range of superb beaches are lapped by the Caribbean Sea and at the same time are often totally deserted. Barbados south coast is a lively area of the island with restaurants, bars and nightclubs: The West Coast is somewhat quieter, although it has some of the finest hotels and restaurants in Barbados . The East and North coast of s are rugged and wild with spectacular scenery - a must for the photographer experienced surfer or wildlife enthusiast. This enormous variety of landscape, from tropical gardens and plantation houses to the wild Atlantic Sea at North Point, makes touring the Island a pleasure. All over the Island is green and lush - thus earning the name "Little England". There is so much to see. Barbados has its own National Trust preserving many of the Plantation Houses, spectacular gardens and historic sites around the Island. Visit Sunbury House, Tyrol Cot, The Old Synagogue and Cemetery, Welchman Hall Gully and Andromeda Gardens, Harrison’s Caves, Barbados Wildlife Reserve, Mount Gay Rum Distillery, Garrison Historic Area (including Barbados Museum), Oistins Fish Market, Bathsheba, the Flower Forest and St. John's Church, one of the several parish churches which highlight Barbados's long connection with England – the list is endless! St Lucia – Island Guide Saint Lucia is an beautiful volcanic island of northwest of Barbados. It is also known as the "Helen of the West Indies" because it switched between British and French control so often it has been compared to the mythical Helen of Troy. Saint Lucia is the most mountainous of the Caribbean islands, with the highest peak being Mount Gimie, at 950 metres (3,120 ft) above sea level.Two other mountains ( Pitons), form the island's most famous landmark. They are located between Soufrière and Choiseul on the western side of the island. Saint Lucia is unique having a drive-in volcano. The capital city of Saint Lucia is Castries, where about one third of the population lives. Major towns include Gros Islet, Soufrière and Vieux Fort. The local climate is tropical, moderated by northeast trade winds, with a dry season from January to April and a rainy season from May to December. Antigua – Island Guide Antigua is the largest of the Leeward islands. The island covers and area of 108 square miles, and is the most developed and prosperous island in the Caribbean. St Johns the capital of Antigua and is situated in the northwest of the island close to the VC bird internationl airport that the majority of tourists pass through to and from Antigua. The airport is named in honor of Sir Vere Cornwall Bird, the first prime minister of Antigua and Barbuda. English Harbour on the southeast coast is renown as the site of a restored British colonial naval station called "Nelson's Dockyard". Today English Harbour and the neighbouring village of Falmouth are an internationally famous yachting and sailing destination and provisioning centre. At the end of April and beginning of May, Antigua Sailing Week, an annual world-class regatta started in 1967, brings many sailing vessels and sailors to the island to play sports. Tobago Tobago is the smallest of the two principle islands that make up the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. It is located in the southern Caribbean Sea, northeast of the island of Trinidad and southeast of Grenada. The island lies outside the hurricane belt. Tobago has a land mass area  of 116 square miles. The capital of the island is called  Scarborough however it shares no similarities with its namesake! Tobago is primarily hilly and volcanic. The southwest of the island is flat and the island has a clear hilly spine called, the Main Ridge. The highest point in Tobago is the 550 metre Pigeon Peak near Speyside. Tobago is also a popular diving location, since it is the most southerly of the Caribbean island with coral communities. Grenada – Island Guide Grenada is an including the southern Grenadines in the southeastern Caribbean Sea. Grenada and is located north of Trinidad and Tobagoand south of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Grenada is popularly known as 'The Spice Isle' because of an abundance of locally grown spices and a culture of music, dance and food built into the image of the 'spice of life', Grenada is also a well-known tourist destination. It is one of the smallest independent nations in the Western Hemisphere.   Barbados | Antigua | St Lucia | Grenada | Tobago info@caribbean-unpackaged.com Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy | About The Site | Contact Us © 2004 - 2009 Caribbean Unpackaged Some photos kindly supplied by Grenada Board of Tourism, St. Lucia Tourist Board, Barbados Tourism Authority, Antigua Board of Tourism and Tobago Tourism Authority.