Rush to avoid ‘double dose’ of infection | Queensland Times Skip to site map Menu premium_icon Subscribe Today's Paper Login Hi My Profile Notifications Admin Site Logout Just In News Sport Lifestyle Community Jobs Motoring Real Estate Obituaries Classifieds 18-28°C Possible shower Ipswich Ipswich Toogoolawah Esk Gatton Harrisville Lowood Loganlea Ripley Springfield Central News Local News Just In Letters to the Editor Opinion Queensland National World Off Beat Business Sport Local Sport National Sport Horse Racing Features Opinion NRL AFL Soccer Cricket Netball Golf Lifestyle Entertainment Health Smarter Shopping Education Parenting Hey Mumma Home & Style Easy Eating Gardening Outdoor Living Travel Fashion Dating Community Community News Your Story Weddings Pets Photos Buy Photos Videos Local History Ipswich Council Chamber of Commerce What's on Events Competitions Guides Tourism Post Your Event Jobs Jobs News Training & Education Local Job Listings Post your Job Ad Motoring Motoring News Road Test Future Models Local Motoring Listings Post your Motoring Ad Real Estate Real Estate News Local Real Estate Listings Real Estate Guide Post your Real Estate Ad Sold On - Ipswich Obituaries Classifieds Classifieds Real Estate Motoring Jobs Buy & Sell Notices Trades & Services Health & Beauty Personals Businesses for Sale Post an Ad Find Your Local Search by keyword Search by location Search by category Add your business Special Features QT Magazine QT Business Directory Scenic Rim Leader APN Network Health Rush to avoid ‘double dose’ of infection People are rushing to get flu shots to avoid a dangerous double-dose of infection during the COVID-19 outbreak, but its caused concerns. Health Rush to avoid ‘double dose’ of infection by Samantha Maiden 10th Apr 2020 1:15 PM 0 Pharmacies across Australia are reporting long waits for the flu shot as families rush to follow official advice to get vaccinated to avoid a dangerous "double-dose" infection during the COVID-19 pandemic. While the flu vaccine offers no protection against COVID-19, doctors say it's one of the best things you can do to reduce pressure on the health system as it grapples with coronavirus crisis. Experts have been urging everyone over the age of six months to get vaccinated for the flu in April to provide the best protection against the peak flu season, which starts in June. But many pharmacists offering the jab with nurse practitioners to adults for around $30, including Chemist Warehouse and Priceline, are now booked out for the entire month of April, prompting concerns some will miss out or not be immunised in time for the flu season. Experts have been urging everyone over the age of six months to get the flu shot.   Despite the Morrison Government moving to secure the largest supply of seasonal influenza vaccines, the CSL group, which has been producing influenza vaccines in Melbourne, since the 1940s is now working to boost production. Seqirus - owned by CSL - is the only local manufacturer of flu vaccines in the country. "There's been extremely strong early demand for flu vaccines across all channels - GPs, pharmacies and other immunisation providers,'' Seqirus executive director Danielle Dowel told news.com.au. "This is a good thing overall for important vaccine programs, especially this year as our health system deals with the concurrent COVID-19 outbreak. "We've already distributed five million vaccines with more to come. There will be more flu vaccines being distributed across the country after Easter and into May, and we encourage people to phone their clinic or pharmacy ahead of time to ensure the vaccines have arrived and are available." Hundreds of Australians die from the flu every year and it also results in thousands of hospitalisations and hundreds of thousands of GP consultations. The symptoms of influenza and COVID-19 can also be similar and is likely to result in more tests for the coronavirus for people who simply have the flu. Lockdown measures aimed at limiting the spread of COVID-19 and even simply washing your hands more often may actually reduce the number of flu cases this year, but experts are urging people to still get vaccinated. Under new COVID-19 measures, all visitors to aged care facilities and childcare facilities need to have flu vaccinations from May 1 to enter the premises, increasing demand. For the first time, a world-first 4-shot flu vaccine offering greater protection against more strains is also being offered this year in Australia and the publicity around the new vaccine has also increased bookings. In a letter to doctors in March, the chief medical officer Professor Brendan Murphy stressed getting the flu jabs at the right time to ensure immunity was important. "Vaccinating from mid-April provides protection before the peak season takes place,'' he said. "While protection is generally expected to last for the whole season, the best protection against influenza occurs within the first 3 to 4 months following vaccination." Another reason why pharmacies are running low is that orders of flu season doses orders are finalised 6 months in advance of each flu season. This allows manufacturers time to produce the vaccine. However, no one predicted the emergence of COVID-19 when this year's orders were placed.   Hospital staff test people outside the Tanunda War Memorial Hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 testing clinic. Picture: David Mariuz/AAP   Only adults can get vaccinated by private providers at pharmacies. The official advice is that everyone over the age of six months should get vaccinated. But children still need to book in with a GP to get the flu shot. There should be no shortage of jabs for over-65s which now receive the vaccine for free. It's also offered for free to pregnant women and all children under the age of 5. Families can access the flu vaccine through private providers including GPs and pharmacists and state and territory programs. People who do not have COVID-19, or who are not a suspected case of COVID-19, are allowed to leave their home for a flu vaccination. But Australian Medical Association President Dr Tony Bartone has urged people to phone ahead and make sure their health care professional has vaccine available and made an appointment. "Influenza is a serious illness. It is preventable, and there is a very safe way to prevent that, and it's the influenza vaccine,'' he said. To find a provider of the flu-shot you can call the National Immunisation Hotline on 1800 671 811. Originally published as Rush to avoid 'double dose' of infection 0 coronavirus Read More Login to follow flu shots Read More Login to follow health Read More Login to follow coronavirus flu shots health Subscriber Exclusives premium_icon What to expect when expecting during the pandemic News Coronavirus restrictions have some mothers-to-be feeling anxious about their pregnancy and has forced them to make an emotional decision. premium_icon Mum’s visa at risk after coronavirus job loss News ‘I’ve worked here for four years self-employed and not asked for a cent from anybody, I look after myself’ 4 premium_icon Hope for Whitsundays’ reefs after third mass bleaching News After the hottest February on record since 1900, the reefs around the region are luckily not the hardest hit. premium_icon Ipswich residents among thousands of Aussies stuck overseas News At least 15 Ipswich residents are among thousands of Aussies desperately trying to get home during the coronavirus chaos. premium_icon What you CAN still do under COVID-19 restrictions Community 11 activities to keep you occupied in Mackay while still abiding by government rules 4 premium_icon Police crack down on juvenile offenders Crime Up to a dozen children were arrested in Mackay in relation to alleged property crime and car thefts 4 Just In Cruise ship passengers set for Australian return 10th Apr 2020 1:52 PM premium_icon Man dies in prison 10th Apr 2020 1:30 PM 'Go back to China': Racist Telstra attack 10th Apr 2020 1:23 PM Desperate Aussies’ $200,000 mistake 10th Apr 2020 1:22 PM Mum’s angry rant over homeschooling 10th Apr 2020 1:19 PM NSW records 22nd death as COVID-19 cases jump 10th Apr 2020 1:17 PM Just In premium_icon Touching gesture for frontline workers 10th Apr 2020 1:13 PM premium_icon Backpackers kicked out of caravan park during virus pandemic premium_icon Renter laws a ‘kick in the guts’, says real estate body 10th Apr 2020 1:03 PM 1 premium_icon PARTY BUST: Teen has 18th birthday to forget as cops strike 1 Top Stories premium_icon Violent thug holds fork to victim’s eyeball Crime Michael Vogler sentenced over series of violent attacks on strangers. premium_icon Dance teacher twirls into new ‘essential’ job News A dance instructor has taken pointe in a new role to help her family. premium_icon LAST DAYS: 28 days of digital access for free News If you want the paper delivered as well it's just a $1 a day premium_icon Visitors urged to stay away this Easter News Visitors are being told to stay away from Ipswich conservation estates over the... © The Queensland Times Pty Limited 2020. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty. News Corp Australia Group Websites Need Help? Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing. Queensland Times Ipswich News National News World News Sport Lifestyle Travel Shopping Business Real Estate Home Loans Ipswich Weather Newspapers in Education What's On Entertainment Events Place an event Competitions Ipswich Classifieds Jobs in Ipswich Cars for Sale in Ipswich Property listings in Ipswich Bargains for Sale in Ipswich Obituaries in Ipswich Personals in Ipswich Notices in Ipswich Property for Rent Houses for Sale Classifieds Garage Sale Recruitment About Queensland Times Audience Panel About Us Contact Us Our Team Use our Content Home Delivery ePaper Photo Sales Letters to the Editor Competition Terms News Media Digital Advertising Group Sites Privacy Policy Terms of Use × Login