Rush to avoid ‘double dose’ of infection | Coffs Coast Advocate Skip to site map Menu premium_icon Subscribe Today's Paper Login Hi My Profile Notifications Admin Site Logout Just In News Sport Lifestyle Community Jobs Motoring Real Estate Obituaries Classifieds 17-24°C Showers Coffs Coast Coffs Harbour Nambucca Heads Woolgoolga Emerald Beach Moonee Beach Korora Sawtell Urunga Bellingen Dorrigo Glenreagh News Local News Just In Letters to the Editor Opinion New South Wales National World Off Beat Business Sport Local Sport National Sport Horse Racing Features Opinion NRL AFL Soccer Cricket Netball Golf Lifestyle Entertainment Health Smarter Shopping Education Parenting Hey Mumma Home & Style Easy Eating Gardening Outdoor Living Travel Fashion Dating Community Community News Your Story Weddings Pets Photos Buy Photos Videos Local History What's on Events Competitions Guides Tourism Post Your Event Jobs Jobs News Training & Education Local Job Listings Post your Job Ad Motoring Motoring News Road Test Future Models Local Motoring Listings Post your Motoring Ad Real Estate Real Estate News Local Real Estate Listings Real Estate Guide Post your Real Estate Ad Sold On - Coffs Coast Obituaries Classifieds Classifieds Real Estate Motoring Jobs Buy & Sell Notices Trades & Services Health & Beauty Personals Businesses for Sale Post an Ad Find Your Local Search by keyword Search by location Search by category Add your business Special Features Discover Coffs Coast Coffs Coast Wedding Guide APN Network Health Rush to avoid ‘double dose’ of infection People are rushing to get flu shots to avoid a dangerous double-dose of infection during the COVID-19 outbreak, but its caused concerns. Health Rush to avoid ‘double dose’ of infection by Samantha Maiden 10th Apr 2020 1:15 PM 0 Pharmacies across Australia are reporting long waits for the flu shot as families rush to follow official advice to get vaccinated to avoid a dangerous "double-dose" infection during the COVID-19 pandemic. While the flu vaccine offers no protection against COVID-19, doctors say it's one of the best things you can do to reduce pressure on the health system as it grapples with coronavirus crisis. Experts have been urging everyone over the age of six months to get vaccinated for the flu in April to provide the best protection against the peak flu season, which starts in June. But many pharmacists offering the jab with nurse practitioners to adults for around $30, including Chemist Warehouse and Priceline, are now booked out for the entire month of April, prompting concerns some will miss out or not be immunised in time for the flu season. Experts have been urging everyone over the age of six months to get the flu shot.   Despite the Morrison Government moving to secure the largest supply of seasonal influenza vaccines, the CSL group, which has been producing influenza vaccines in Melbourne, since the 1940s is now working to boost production. Seqirus - owned by CSL - is the only local manufacturer of flu vaccines in the country. "There's been extremely strong early demand for flu vaccines across all channels - GPs, pharmacies and other immunisation providers,'' Seqirus executive director Danielle Dowel told news.com.au. "This is a good thing overall for important vaccine programs, especially this year as our health system deals with the concurrent COVID-19 outbreak. "We've already distributed five million vaccines with more to come. There will be more flu vaccines being distributed across the country after Easter and into May, and we encourage people to phone their clinic or pharmacy ahead of time to ensure the vaccines have arrived and are available." Hundreds of Australians die from the flu every year and it also results in thousands of hospitalisations and hundreds of thousands of GP consultations. The symptoms of influenza and COVID-19 can also be similar and is likely to result in more tests for the coronavirus for people who simply have the flu. Lockdown measures aimed at limiting the spread of COVID-19 and even simply washing your hands more often may actually reduce the number of flu cases this year, but experts are urging people to still get vaccinated. Under new COVID-19 measures, all visitors to aged care facilities and childcare facilities need to have flu vaccinations from May 1 to enter the premises, increasing demand. For the first time, a world-first 4-shot flu vaccine offering greater protection against more strains is also being offered this year in Australia and the publicity around the new vaccine has also increased bookings. In a letter to doctors in March, the chief medical officer Professor Brendan Murphy stressed getting the flu jabs at the right time to ensure immunity was important. "Vaccinating from mid-April provides protection before the peak season takes place,'' he said. "While protection is generally expected to last for the whole season, the best protection against influenza occurs within the first 3 to 4 months following vaccination." Another reason why pharmacies are running low is that orders of flu season doses orders are finalised 6 months in advance of each flu season. This allows manufacturers time to produce the vaccine. However, no one predicted the emergence of COVID-19 when this year's orders were placed.   Hospital staff test people outside the Tanunda War Memorial Hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 testing clinic. Picture: David Mariuz/AAP   Only adults can get vaccinated by private providers at pharmacies. The official advice is that everyone over the age of six months should get vaccinated. But children still need to book in with a GP to get the flu shot. There should be no shortage of jabs for over-65s which now receive the vaccine for free. It's also offered for free to pregnant women and all children under the age of 5. Families can access the flu vaccine through private providers including GPs and pharmacists and state and territory programs. People who do not have COVID-19, or who are not a suspected case of COVID-19, are allowed to leave their home for a flu vaccination. But Australian Medical Association President Dr Tony Bartone has urged people to phone ahead and make sure their health care professional has vaccine available and made an appointment. "Influenza is a serious illness. It is preventable, and there is a very safe way to prevent that, and it's the influenza vaccine,'' he said. To find a provider of the flu-shot you can call the National Immunisation Hotline on 1800 671 811. Originally published as Rush to avoid 'double dose' of infection 0 coronavirus Read More Login to follow flu shots Read More Login to follow health Read More Login to follow coronavirus flu shots health Subscriber Exclusives premium_icon Mum’s visa at risk after coronavirus job loss News ‘I’ve worked here for four years self-employed and not asked for a cent from anybody, I look after myself’ 4 premium_icon Hope for Whitsundays’ reefs after third mass bleaching News After the hottest February on record since 1900, the reefs around the region are luckily not the hardest hit. premium_icon What you CAN still do under COVID-19 restrictions Community 11 activities to keep you occupied in Mackay while still abiding by government rules 4 premium_icon Police crack down on juvenile offenders Crime Up to a dozen children were arrested in Mackay in relation to alleged property crime and car thefts 4 premium_icon Coronavirus sparks idea for innovative new product Business Mackay company’s idea allows customers to shop safely amid the global pandemic. premium_icon Mining boss responds to COVID-19 safety concerns News As the impact of COVID-19 is felt around the world, a mining boss has revealed his thoughts on tough new FIFO travel restrictions. Just In premium_icon Airport closes terminal as last flights depart 10th Apr 2020 2:18 PM premium_icon A watchful eye for muttonbirds 10th Apr 2020 2:00 PM Cruise ship passengers set for Australian return 10th Apr 2020 1:52 PM premium_icon Man dies in prison 10th Apr 2020 1:30 PM 'Go back to China': Racist Telstra attack 10th Apr 2020 1:23 PM Desperate Aussies’ $200,000 mistake 10th Apr 2020 1:22 PM Just In Mum’s angry rant over homeschooling 10th Apr 2020 1:19 PM NSW records 22nd death as COVID-19 cases jump 10th Apr 2020 1:17 PM premium_icon Touching gesture for frontline workers 10th Apr 2020 1:13 PM premium_icon Backpackers kicked out of caravan park during virus pandemic Top Stories premium_icon Sewage leak closes popular Mid North Coast creek News On top of current COVID-19 measures, the public should not swim, fish or undertake any boating activity at the creek until further notice. premium_icon COVID BATTLE RAMPS UP: Police, health officials join forces News Easter holiday period marks a “crucial” moment premium_icon Pet dog killed by alleged illegal baiting program News 1080 was detected in the dog’s stomach. premium_icon Bowraville man charged with historic sexual assault News The 56-year-old man was remanded in custody. © North Coast News Pty Ltd 2020. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty. News Corp Australia Group Websites Need Help? Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing. Coffs Coast Advocate Coffs Coast News National News World News Sport Lifestyle Travel Shopping Business Real Estate Home Loans Coffs Coast Weather Newspapers in Education What's On Entertainment Events Place an event Competitions Coffs Coast Classifieds Jobs in Coffs Coast Cars for Sale in Coffs Coast Property listings in Coffs Coast Bargains for Sale in Coffs Coast Obituaries in Coffs Coast Personals in Coffs Coast Notices in Coffs Coast Property for Rent Houses for Sale Classifieds Garage Sale Recruitment About Coffs Coast Advocate About Us Contact Us Home Delivery Use our Content Photo Sales Letters to the Editor Competition Terms News Media Digital Advertising Group Sites Privacy Policy Terms of Use × Login